Corpus length: 15845
Accepted: 1944
Rejected: 0
ACCEPTED:
Scarce any nation has dealt equally and impartially with every sort of industry.
The fifth and last book treats of the revenue of the sovereign, or commonwealth.
OF THE DIVISION OF LABOUR.
We can seldom see more, at one time, than those employed in one single branch.
There are in a pound upwards of four thousand pins of a middling size.
Those ten persons, therefore, could make among them upwards of forty-eight thousand pins in a day.
The making of a nail, however, is by no means one of the simplest operations.
It is, even in this case, however, very considerable.
A man commonly saunters a little in turning his hand from one sort of employment to another.
It is unnecessary to give any example.
OF THE PRINCIPLE WHICH GIVES OCCASION TO THE DIVISION OF LABOUR.
Nobody ever saw a dog make a fair and deliberate exchange of one bone for another with another dog.
He has not time, however, to do this upon every occasion.
Whoever offers to another a bargain of any kind, proposes to do this.
Nobody but a beggar chooses to depend chiefly upon the benevolence of his fellow-citizens.
Even a beggar does not depend upon it entirely.
The charity of well-disposed people, indeed, supplies him with the whole fund of his subsistence.
With the money which one man gives him he purchases food.
Another excels in making the frames and covers of their little huts or moveable houses.
About that age, or soon after, they come to be employed in very different occupations.
THAT THE DIVISION OF LABOUR IS LIMITED BY THE EXTENT OF THE MARKET.
A porter, for example, can find employment and subsistence in no other place.
The employments of the latter are still more various.
There could be little or no commerce of any kind between the distant parts of the world.
OF THE ORIGIN AND USE OF MONEY.
No exchange can, in this case, be made between them.
Different metals have been made use of by different nations for this purpose.
Thus we are told by Pliny (Plin.)
These rude bars, therefore, performed at this time the function of money.
This money, however, was for a long time, received at the exchequer, by weight, and not by tale.
Such coins, therefore, were received by tale, as at present, without the trouble of weighing.
Contained a pound, Tower weight, of silver of a known fineness.
The shilling, too, seems originally to have been the denomination of a weight.
Then wastel bread of a farthing shall weigh eleven shillings and fourpence".
These rules determine what may be called the relative or exchangeable value of goods.
Secondly, what are the different parts of which this real price is composed or made up.
Labour therefore, is the real measure of the exchangeable value of all commodities.
That money, or those goods, indeed, save us this toil.
Labour was the first price, the original purchase money that was paid for all things.
Wealth, as Mr Hobbes says, is power.
It is often difficult to ascertain the proportion between two different quantities of labour.
The time spent in two different sorts of work will not always alone determine this proportion.
But it is not easy to find any accurate measure either of hardship or ingenuity.
It appears to him dear in the one case, and cheap in the other.
In reality, however, it is the goods which are cheap in the one case, and dear in the other.
Such variations, therefore, tend almost always to diminish the value of a money rent.
The discovery of the mines of America diminished the value of gold and silver in Europe.
Blackstone, commonly near double of what arises from the other two-thirds.
We cannot estimate it from year to year by the quantities of corn.
It is so, however, at the same time and place only.
I shall hereafter have occasion to make several comparisons of this kind.
Copper, therefore, appears to have continued always the measure of value in that republic.
The as was always the denomination of a copper coin.
The word sestertius signifies two asses and a half.
Though the sestertius, therefore, was originally a silver coin, its value was estimated in copper.
At Rome, one who owed a great deal of money was said to have a great deal of other people's copper.
Of Great Britain.
Copper is not at present a legal tender, except in the change of the smaller silver coins.
Silver would appear to be more invariable in its value than gold.
In the payment of such a note, gold would appear to be more invariable in its value than silver.
Since that reformation, the market price has been constantly below the mint price.
But that market price is the same whether it is paid in gold or in silver coin.
Five shillings and sevenpence, however, seems to have been the most common price.
The price of silver bullion still continued to be somewhat above the mint price.
The bankers only would suffer by this regulation.
In the present hurry of the mint, it could not be returned till after a delay of several months.
Abroad, it could sell only for its weight in bullion.
At home, it would buy more than that weight.
There would be a profit, therefore, in bringing it home again.
In France, a seignorage of about eight per cent.
With all their attention, however, they sometimes overdo the business, and sometimes underdo it.
When, on the other hand, they import less than is wanted, they get something more than this price.
OF THE COMPONENT PART OF THE PRICE OF COMMODITIES.
At the rate of ten per cent.
In many great works, almost the whole labour of this kind is committed to some principal clerk.
His wages properly express the value of this labour of inspection and direction.
In this state of things, the whole produce of labour does not always belong to the labourer.
He must in most cases share it with the owner of the stock which employs him.
These three parts seem either immediately or ultimately to make up the whole price of corn.
The price of flax resolves itself into the same three parts as that of corn.
Together with the profits of their respective employers.
Rent very seldom makes any part of it, though it does sometimes, as I shall shew hereafter.
It is otherwise, at least through the greater part of Europe, in river fisheries.
All other revenue is ultimately derived from some one or other of these.
The revenue which proceeds altogether from land, is called rent, and belongs to the landlord.
The revenue of the farmer is derived partly from his labour, and partly from his stock.
The greater part of our North American and West Indian planters are in this situation.
Common farmers seldom employ any overseer to direct the general operations of the farm.
They generally, too, work a good deal with their own hands, as ploughmen, harrowers, etc.
Whatever remains, however, after paying the rent and keeping up the stock, is called profit.
But wages evidently make a part of it.
The farmer, by saving these wages, must necessarily gain them.
Wages, therefore, are in this case confounded with profit.
The whole, however, is commonly considered as the earnings of his labour.
Both rent and profit are, in this case, confounded with wages.
OF THE NATURAL AND MARKET PRICE OF COMMODITIES.
His profit, besides, is his revenue, the proper fund of his subsistence.
The actual price at which any commodity is commonly sold, is called its market price.
It may either be above, or below, or exactly the same with its natural price.
It is different from the absolute demand.
Rather than want it altogether, some of them will be willing to give more.
The quantity of every commodity brought to market naturally suits itself to the effectual demand.
The quantity brought to market will soon be no more than sufficient to supply the effectual demand.
The quantity brought thither will soon be sufficient to supply the effectual demand.
That part which resolves itself into rent is less affected by them.
A rent certain in money is not in the least affected by them, either in its rate or in its value.
It has no effect upon the wages of the weavers.
It raises the wages of journeymen tailors.
The market is here understocked with labour.
There is an effectual demand for more labour, for more work to be done, than can be had.
The market is here overstocked both with commodities and with labour.
Secrets in manufactures are capable of being longer kept than secrets in trade.
His extraordinary gains arise from the high price which is paid for his private labour.
They properly consist in the high wages of that labour.
The price of monopoly is upon every occasion the highest which can be got.
OF THE WAGES OF LABOUR.
The produce of labour constitutes the natural recompence or wages of labour.
He has neither landlord nor master to share with him.
All things would gradually have become cheaper.
In reality, however, it would be twice as cheap.
The acquisition, therefore, would be twice as easy as before.
His rent makes the first deduction from the produce of the labour which is employed upon land.
This profit makes a second deduction from the produce of the labour which is employed upon land.
The produce of almost all other labour is liable to the like deduction of profit.
The workmen desire to get as much, the masters to give as little, as possible.
In all such disputes, the masters can hold out much longer.
But whether their combinations be offensive or defensive, they are always abundantly heard of.
A man must always live by his work, and his wages must at least be sufficient to maintain him.
Increase this surplus, and he will naturally increase the number of those servants.
Increase this surplus, and he will naturally increase the number of his journeymen.
The increase of revenue and stock is the increase of national wealth.
England is certainly, in the present times, a much richer country than any part of North America.
The wages of labour, however, are much higher in North America than in any part of England.
The price of provisions is everywhere in North America much lower than in England.
A dearth has never been known there.
The value of children is the greatest of all encouragements to marriage.
We cannot, therefore, wonder that the people in North America should generally marry very young.
The hands, on the contrary, would, in this case, naturally multiply beyond their employment.
It seems, however, to have been long stationary.
The condition of artificers is, if possible, still worse.
China, however, though it may, perhaps, stand still, does not seem to go backwards.
Its towns are nowhere deserted by their inhabitants.
The lands which had once been cultivated, are nowhere neglected.
Summer wages are always highest.
His daily subsistence would be proportioned to his daily necessities.
Secondly, the wages of labour do not, in Great Britain, fluctuate with the price of provisions.
These vary everywhere from year to year, frequently from month to month.
Higher than at a few miles distance.
Eighteen pence a day may be reckoned the common price of labour in London and its neighbourhood.
At a few miles distance, it falls to fourteen and fifteen pence.
Tenpence may be reckoned its price in Edinburgh and its neighbourhood.
The price of labour, on the contrary, is dearer in England than in Scotland.
With regard to France, there is the clearest proof.
Both suppose the weekly expense of such families to be about twenty-pence a-head.
All sort of garden stuff, too, has become cheaper.
Poverty, though it no doubt discourages, does not always prevent, marriage.
It seems even to be favourable to generation.
Barrenness, so frequent among women of fashion, is very rare among those of inferior station.
Very few of them, it seems, arrive at the age of thirteen or fourteen.
It is hard in the stationary, and miserable in the declining state.
This, however, is by no means the case with the greater part.
Ramuzzini, an eminent Italian physician, has written a particular book concerning such diseases.
The price of labour, therefore, frequently rises in cheap years.
They naturally, therefore, commend the former as more favourable to industry.
The rents of the one, and the profits of the other, depend very much upon the price of provisions.
The one enjoys the whole produce of his own industry, the other shares it with his master.
The men-servants, who leave their masters, become independent labourers.
The contrary of this happens in a year of sudden and extraordinary scarcity.
The funds destined for employing industry are less than they had been the year before.
In the succeeding years of plenty, it was more difficult to get labourers and servants.
OF THE PROFITS OF STOCK.
The increase of stock, which raises wages, tends to lower profit.
We can, even in this case, seldom determine more than what are the most usual wages.
But even this can seldom be done with regard to the profits of stock.
The progress of interest, therefore, may lead us to form some notion of the progress of profit.
All interest above ten per cent.
Was declared unlawful.
More, it seems, had sometimes been taken before that.
Religious zeal prohibited all interest.
And ten per cent.
When it was restricted to eight per cent.
It was reduced to six per cent.
All these different statutory regulations seem to have been made with great propriety.
Seems to have been rather above than below the market rate.
Before the late war, the government borrowed at three per cent.
They seem not only to have been going on, but to have been going on faster and faster.
But the wages of labour are generally higher in a great town than in a country village.
People of the best credit there seldom borrow under five per cent.
Even private bankers in Edinburgh give four per cent.
Private bankers in London give no interest for the money which is deposited with them.
There are few trades which cannot be carried on with a smaller stock in Scotland than in England.
The common rate of profit, therefore, must be somewhat greater.
The wages of labour, it has already been observed, are lower in Scotland than in England.
The Abbé Terray raised it afterwards to the old rate of five per cent.
The wages of labour are lower in France than in England.
The contrast is still greater when you return from France.
France, though no doubt a richer country than Scotland, seems not to be going forward so fast.
The government there borrow at two per cent.
And private people of good credit at three.
They have more land than they have stock to cultivate.
Such land, too, is frequently purchased at a price below the value even of its natural produce.
Those whom he can find, therefore, are very liberally rewarded.
As the colony increases, the profits of stock gradually diminish.
As riches, improvement, and population, have increased, interest has declined.
The wages of labour do not sink with the profits of stock.
Money, says the proverb, makes money.
When you have got a little, it is often easy to get more.
The great difficulty is to get that little.
In all those old trades, therefore, the competition comes to be Jess than before.
The market comes to be less fully supplied with many different sorts of goods.
Who, before that, had not been used to pay more than four, and four and a half per cent.
Their goods cost them less, and they get more for them.
Their profits, therefore, being augmented at both ends, can well afford a large interest.
The interest of money is proportionably so.
In Bengal, money is frequently lent to the farmers at forty, fifty, and sixty per cent.
And the succeeding crop is mortgaged for the payment.
The virtuous Brutus lent money in Cyprus at eight-and-forty per cent.
As we learn from the letters of Cicero.
But, perhaps, no country has ever yet arrived at this degree of opulence.
Twelve per cent.
The courts of justice of their kings seldom intermeddled in it.
When the law prohibits interest altogether, it does not prevent it.
The high rate of interest among all Mahometan nations is accounted for by M.
It is this surplus only which is neat or clear profit.
The interest which the borrower can afford to pay is in proportion to the clear profit only.
Were it not, mere charity or friendship could be the only motives for lending.
The province of Holland seems to be approaching near to this state.
It is there unfashionable not to be a man of business.
Necessity makes it usual for almost every man to be so, and custom everywhere regulates fashion.
As it is ridiculous not to dress, so is it, in some measure, not to be employed like other people.
In a country where the ordinary rate of clear profit is eight or ten per cent.
In reality, high profits tend much more to raise the price of work than high wages.
The employer of the flax dressers would, in selling his flax, require an additional five per cent.
Upon the whole value of the materials and wages which he advanced to his workmen.
The employer of the spinners would require an additional five per cent.
Both upon the advanced price of the flax, and upon the wages of the spinners.
And the employer of the weavers would require alike five per cent.
Both upon the advanced price of the linen-yarn, and upon the wages of the weavers.
The rise of profit operates like compound interest.
OF WAGES AND PROFIT IN THE DIFFERENT EMPLOYMENTS OF LABOUR AND STOCK.
Inequalities arising from the nature of the employments themselves.
Thus in most places, take the year round, a journeyman tailor earns less than a journeyman weaver.
His work is much easier.
A journeyman weaver earns less than a journeyman smith.
His work is not always easier, but it is much cleanlier.
Honour makes a great part of the reward of all honourable professions.
Disgrace has the contrary effect.
Fishermen have been so since the time of Theocritus.
A poacher is everywhere a very poor man in Great Britain.
But there is scarce any common trade in which a small stock yields so great a profit.
They leave the other free and open to every body.
Some money, too, is commonly given to the master for teaching him his trade.
Employment is much more constant in some trades than in others.
He is liable, in consequence, to be frequently without any.
Chairmen in London, during the summer season, are said sometimes to be employed as bricklayers.
A house-carpenter seems to exercise rather a nicer and a more ingenious trade than a mason.
In most places, however, for it is not universally so, his day-wages are somewhat lower.
His high wages arise altogether from the hardship, disagreeableness, and dirtiness of his work.
His employment may, upon most occasions, be as constant as he pleases.
Whether the stock is or is not constantly employed, depends, not upon the trade, but the trader.
Such confidence could not safely be reposed in people of a very mean or low condition.
Two different causes contribute to recommend them.
The exorbitant rewards of players, opera-singers, opera-dancers, etc.
Such talents, though far from being common, are by no means so rare as imagined.
Their absurd presumption in their own good fortune has been less taken notice of.
It is, however, if possible, still more universal.
There is no man living, who, when in tolerable health and spirits, has not some share of it.
The vain hopes of gaining some of the great prizes is the sole cause of this demand.
More than the chance is worth.
Many sail, however, at all seasons, and even in time of war, without any insurance.
This may sometimes, perhaps, be done without any imprudence.
What a common soldier may lose is obvious enough.
These romantic hopes make the whole price of their blood.
The lottery of the sea is not altogether so disadvantageous as that of the army.
The same difference runs through all the inferior degrees of preferment in both.
As the great prizes in the lottery are less, the smaller ones must be more numerous.
The sailor, indeed, over and above his pay, is supplied with provisions.
It is otherwise with those in which courage and address can be of no avail.
In trades which are known to be very unwholesome, the wages of labour are always remarkably high.
The ordinary rate of profit always rises more or less with the risk.
It does not, however, seem to rise in proportion to it, or so as to compensate it completely.
Bankruptcies are most frequent in the most hazardous trades.
They are so accordingly.
Apothecaries' profit is become a bye-word, denoting something uncommonly extravagant.
This great apparent profit, however, is frequently no more than the reasonable wages of labour.
Though he should sell them, therefore, for three or four hundred, or at a thousand per cent.
The greater part of the apparent profit is real wages disguised in the garb of profit.
In a small sea-port town, a little grocer will make forty or fifty per cent.
Upon a stock of ten thousand.
The greater part of the apparent profit is, in this case too, real wages.
The speculative merchant exercises no one regular, established, or well-known branch of business.
This trade can be carried on nowhere but in great towns.
Where all other circumstances are equal, wages are generally higher in new than in old trades.
If the project succeeds, they are commonly at first very high.
The profits of stock vary with the price of the commodities in which it is employed.
A public mourning raises the price of black cloth.
The operations of the speculative merchant are principally employed about such commodities.
They are a sort of out-servants of the landlords and farmers.
In ancient times, they seem to have been common all over Europe.
Their small tenement made a considerable part of it.
In the same islands, they knit worsted stockings to the value of a guinea a pair and upwards.
In most parts of Scotland, she is a good spinner who can earn twentypence a-week.
A dwelling-house in England means every thing that is contained under the same roof.
He expects to maintain his family by his trade, and not by his lodgers.
Inequalities occasioned by the Policy of Europe.
It does this chiefly in the three following ways.
The exclusive privileges of corporations are the principal means it makes use of for this purpose.
The limitation of the number of apprentices restrains it directly.
It required a particular act of parliament to rescind this bye-law.
The university of smiths, the university of tailors, etc.
Are expressions which we commonly meet with in the old charters of ancient towns.
In France, the duration of apprenticeships is different in different towns and in different trades.
In Scotland, there is no general law which regulates universally the duration of apprenticeships.
The term is different in different corporations.
Where it is long, a part of it may generally be redeemed by paying a small fine.
In most towns, too, a very small fine is sufficient to purchase the freedom of any corporation.
May exercise their trades in any town-corporate without paying any fine.
Quite different regulations are necessary to prevent this abuse.
The institution of long apprenticeships has no tendency to form young people to industry.
In the inferior employments, the sweets of labour consist altogether in the recompence of labour.
Apprenticeships were altogether unknown to the ancients.
The reciprocal duties of master and apprentice make a considerable article in every modern code.
The Roman law is perfectly silent with regard to them.
Long apprenticeships are altogether unnecessary.
In the common mechanic trades, those of a few days might certainly be sufficient.
His education would generally in this way be more effectual, and always less tedious and expensive.
The master, indeed, would be a loser.
He would lose all the wages of the apprentice, which he now saves, for seven years together.
In the end, perhaps, the apprentice himself would be a loser.
The trades, the crafts, the mysteries, would all be losers.
In England, indeed, a charter from the king was likewise necessary.
Every town draws its whole subsistence, and all the materials of its industry, from the: country.
It pays for these chiefly in two ways.
The dearer the latter are sold, the cheaper the former are bought.
The industry of the town becomes more, and that of the country less advantageous.
But stock and labour naturally seek the most advantageous employment.
They naturally, therefore, resort as much as they can to the town, and desert the country.
The inhabitants of a town being collected into one place, can easily combine together.
The trades which employ but a small number of hands, run most easily into such combinations.
Half-a-dozen wool-combers, perhaps, are necessary to keep a thousand spinners and weavers at work.
The inhabitants of the country, dispersed in distant places, cannot easily combine together.
He is less accustomed, indeed, to social intercourse, than the mechanic who lives in a town.
It is supported by many other regulations.
Those other regulations secure them equally against that of foreigners.
It is the fear of losing their employment which restrains his frauds and corrects his negligence.
An exclusive corporation necessarily weakens the force of this discipline.
A particular set of workmen must then be employed, let them behave well or ill.
Very few of them are educated altogether at their own expense.
When he taught at Athens, he is said to have had a hundred scholars.
Many other eminent teachers in those times appear to have acquired great fortunes.
Georgias made a present to the temple of Delphi of his own statue in solid gold.
We must not, I presume, suppose that it was as large as the life.
Plato himself is said to have lived with a good deal of magnificence.
This inequality is, upon the whole, perhaps rather advantageous than hurtful to the public.
The arts of weaving plain linen and plain silk, for example, are almost entirely the same.
They generally, therefore, chuse to come upon the parish.
That which is given to it by the poor laws is, so far as I know, peculiar to England.
The difficulty of obtaining settlements obstructs even that of common labour.
No married man can well gain any settlement in either of the two last ways.
It imposes no real hardship upon the masters.
Is in favour of the masters.
The assize of bread is, so far as I know, the only remnant of this ancient usage.
OF THE RENT OF LAND.
He sometimes demands rent for what is altogether incapable of human improvements.
Whether the price is, or is not more, depends upon the demand.
The former must always afford a rent to the landlord.
The latter sometimes may and sometimes may not, according to different circumstances.
Of the Produce of Land which always affords Rent.
Something, therefore, always remains for a rent to the landlord.
The rent increases in proportion to the goodness of the pasture.
A smaller proportion of this diminished surplus, therefore, must belong to the landlord.
They are upon that account the greatest of all improvements.
They are advantageous even to that part of the country.
Their rents, however, have risen, and their cultivation has been improved since that time.
It seems to have done so universally in the rude beginnings of agriculture.
He says nothing of the price of bread, probably because he found nothing remarkable about it.
An ox there, he says, costs little more than the labour of catching him.
It is otherwise when cultivation is extended over the greater part of the country.
There is then more bread than butcher's meat.
The Union opened the market of England to the Highland cattle.
This local advantage, it is evident, cannot be communicated to the lands at a distance.
To plough, he ranked only in the fourth place of profit and advantage.
It is likely to fall, if ever the neighbouring lands are completely inclosed.
The advantage of inclosure is greater for pasture than for corn.
The quarter of nine Winchester bushels.
The rent and profit of these regulate the rent and profit of all other cultivated land.
But to bring the ground into this condition requires more expense.
Hence a greater rent becomes due to the landlord.
It requires, too, a more attentive and skilful management.
Hence a greater profit becomes due to the farmer.
The crop, too, at least in the hop and fruit garden, is more precarious.
Palladius adopts the opinion of Columella, which had before been recommended by Varro.
The same point is frequently at this day a matter of controversy in the wine countries.
The pretence of this order was the scarcity of corn and pasture, and the superabundance of wine.
It is like the policy which would promote agriculture, by discouraging manufactures.
The vine is more affected by the difference of soils than any other fruit-tree.
Whatever it be, the greater part of it goes to the rent of the landlord.
The cultivation of tobacco, however, seems not to be so advantageous as that of sugar.
In Europe, corn is the principal produce of land, which serves immediately for human food.
Britain need envy neither the vineyards of France, nor the olive plantations of Italy.
A rice field produces a much greater quantity of food than the most fertile corn field.
A good rice field is a bog at all seasons, and at one season a bog covered with water.
A greater share of this surplus, too, would belong to the landlord.
Population would increase, and rents would rise much beyond what they are at present.
The land which is fit for potatoes, is fit for almost every other useful vegetable.
I am, however, somewhat doubtful of the truth of it.
But it seems to be otherwise with potatoes.
Of the Produce of Land, which sometimes does, and sometimes does not, afford Rent.
Other sorts of produce sometimes may, and sometimes may not, according to different circumstances.
After food, clothing and lodging are the two great wants of mankind.
In the other, there is often a scarcity, which necessarily augments their value.
In the other, they are all made use of, and there is frequently a demand for more than can be had.
Their price, therefore, can always afford some rent to the landlord.
The skins of the larger animals were the original materials of clothing.
It affords, therefore, some rent to the landlord.
A good stone quarry in the neighbourhood of London would afford a considerable rent.
In many parts of Scotland and Wales it affords none.
The demand of wealthier nations, however, sometimes enables him to get a rent for it.
When food is provided, it is easy to find the necessary clothing and lodging.
But though these are at hand, it may often be difficult to find food.
They do not, however, require a great deal.
All the other ninety-nine parts are frequently no more than enough to provide them with food.
The rich man consumes no more food than his poor neighbour.
Whether it is or is not such, depends upon different circumstances.
Some coal mines, advantageously situated, cannot be wrought on account of their barrenness.
The produce does not pay the expense.
They can afford neither profit nor rent.
They afford some profit to the undertaker of the work, but no rent to the landlord.
Many coal mines in Scotland are wrought in this manner, and can be wrought in no other.
Coals are a less agreeable fuel than wood: they are said too to be less wholesome.
The scarcity of wood then raises its price.
Coals, in the coal countries, are everywhere much below this highest price.
That of a metallic mine depends more upon its fertility, and less upon its situation.
The silver of Peru finds its way, not only to Europe, but from Europe to China.
The productions of such distant coal mines can never be brought into competition with one another.
But the productions of the most distant metallic mines frequently may, and in fact commonly are.
The price of copper in Japan must have some influence upon its price at the copper mines in Europe.
This was the case, too, with the mines of Cuba and St.
Domingo, and even with the ancient mines of Peru, after the discovery of those of Potosi.
Labour and profit make up the greater part of both.
Borlace, vice-warden of the stannaries.
Some, he says, afford more, and some do not afford so much.
A sixth part of the gross produce is the rent, too, of several very fertile lead mines in Scotland.
The tax of the duke of Cornwall upon tin is supposed to amount to more than five per cent.
Neither are the profits of the undertakers of silver mines commonly very great in Peru.
Gold, on the contrary, is almost always found virgin.
It must at least be sufficient to replace that stock, with the ordinary profits.
The demand for those metals arises partly from their utility, and partly from their beauty.
If you except iron, they are more useful than, perhaps, any other metal.
No paint or dye can give so splendid a colour as gilding.
The merit of their beauty is greatly enhanced by their scarcity.
The demand for the precious stones arises altogether from their beauty.
Wages and profit accordingly make up, upon most occasions, almost the whole of the high price.
The other, it seems, were to the proprietor not worth the working.
It is otherwise in estates above ground.
The value of the most barren land is not diminished by the neighbourhood of the most fertile.
On the contrary, it is generally increased by it.
The poor inhabitants of Cuba and St.
The great market for silver is the commercial and civilized part of the world.
Continue very nearly the same.
Was enacted what is called the Statute of Labourers.
And may have been as old as the Conquest.
They had been wrought, many of them, from the time of the Romans.
In many places, accordingly, it is not much above one half of this price.
Fleetwood acknowledges, upon one occasion, that he had made this mistake.
The price is eight shillings the quarter of wheat.
It is the only addition which I have made.
The prices of corn, which he himself has collected, certainly do not agree with this opinion.
But in countries almost waste, or but thinly inhabited, cattle, poultry, game of all kinds, etc.
In such a state of things, the supply commonly exceeds the demand.
In every state of society, in every stage of improvement, corn is the production of human industry.
This notion, however, seems to be altogether groundless.
Rice in China is much cheaper than wheat is any where in Europe.
Among savages, the poorest of all nations, they are scarce of any value.
In great towns, corn is always dearer than in remote parts of the country.
They do not produce enough to maintain their inhabitants.
It is otherwise with necessaries.
Corn is a necessary, silver is only a superfluity.
Dearer than it had been during the sixteen years before.
This event was the great debasement of the silver coin, by clipping and wearing.
Below its standard value.
Below that value.
It is by many people supposed to have done more.
The bushel, or eight-and-twenty shillings the quarter.
In years of great scarcity, indeed, the bounty has generally been suspended.
It must, however, have had some effect upon the prices of many of those years.
But, without the bounty, it may be said the state of tillage would not have been the same.
Below the average price of the sixty-four first years of the present century.
The profits of mining would for some time be very great, and much above their natural rate.
Silver would gradually exchange for a smaller and a smaller quantity of goods.
First, the market of Europe has become gradually more and more extensive.
Since the discovery of America, the greater part of Europe has been much improved.
Italy seems not to have gone backwards.
The fall of Italy preceded the conquest of Peru.
Since that time it seems rather to have recovered a little.
Spain and Portugal, indeed, are supposed to have gone backwards.
The greater part, too, of the Spanish and Portuguese colonies, are altogether new markets.
A considerable degree of both has now been introduced into all of them.
All the ancient arts of Mexico and Peru have never furnished one single manufacture to Europe.
They seem, however, to be advancing in all those much more rapidly than any country in Europe.
The East India trade of the Swedes and Danes began in the course of the present century.
Tea, for example, was a drug very little used in Europe, before the middle of the last century.
Such countries are accordingly much more populous.
It is the most valuable article in the Acapulco ships which sail to Manilla.
The account of what was imported under register, he assures us, is exact.
The great experience of this judicious merchant renders his opinion of considerable weight.
The mines of America, besides, are by no means the only gold and silver mines in the world.
They, are, however, by far the most abundant.
The durableness of metals is the foundation of this extraordinary steadiness of price.
Variations in the Proportion between the respective Values of Gold and Silver.
Gold rose in its nominal value, or in the quantity of silver which was given for it.
It is in the mint, perhaps, rated too high for the value which it bears in the market of Bengal.
In China, the proportion of gold to silver still continues as one to ten, or one to twelve.
In Japan, it is said to be as one to eight.
When we compare the precious metals with one another, silver is a cheap, and gold a dear commodity.
In the coin of some countries, the value of the two metals is nearly equal.
In the coin of many countries the silver preponderates.
This third event is very possible.
Lower than it would have been, had the court of Spain continued to exact the old tax.
Their consumption must increase as their mass increases, or rather in a much greater proportion.
As their mass increases, their value diminishes.
Grounds of the suspicion that the Value of Silver still continues to decrease.
Different Effects of the Progress of Improvement upon three different sorts of rude Produce.
These different sorts of rude produce may be divided into three classes.
The first comprehends those which it is scarce in the power of human industry to multiply at all.
The second, those which it can multiply in proportion to the demand.
The third, those in which the efficacy of industry is either limited or uncertain.
When it has got so high, it cannot well go higher.
If it did, more land and more industry would soon be employed to increase their quantity.
If it did, more corn land would soon be turned into pasture.
It had not got to this height in any part of Scotland before the Union.
These, therefore, will be kept constantly in good condition, and fit for tillage.
Varro and Columella assure us, that it was a most profitable article.
Thus, in every farm, the offals of the barn and stable will maintain a certain number of poultry.
When it has got to this height, it cannot well go higher.
If it did, more land would soon be turned to this purpose.
A middling farmer will there sometimes have four hundred fowls in his yard.
For some time before this practice becomes general, the scarcity must necessarily raise the price.
In France, according to Mr Buffon, the price of pork is nearly equal to that of beef.
In most parts of Great Britain it is at present somewhat higher.
But of all the productions of land, milk is perhaps the most perishable.
In the warm season, when it is most abundant, it will scarce keep four-and-twenty hours.
The increase of price pays for more labour, care, and cleanliness.
If it did, more land would soon be turned to this purpose.
Through the greater part of Scotland, therefore, it cannot yet be even so profitable.
But the extent of their respective markets is commonly extremely different.
The market for butcher's meat is almost everywhere confined to the country which produces it.
The carcase is often left to rot upon the ground, or to be devoured by beasts and birds of prey.
Was to its money price in the present times as ten to seven.
The superiority of its real price was still greater.
It has accordingly been the effect of violence and artifice.
But this seems not to have been the case with raw hides.
Its nominal price was a good deal lower than at present.
Its real value was equal to ten shillings and threepence of our present money.
That of sheep skins is a good deal above it.
They had probably been sold with the wool.
That of calves skins, on the contrary, is greatly below it.
It saves the milk, which their price would not pay for.
Their skins, therefore, are commonly good for little.
It suffers more by keeping.
A salted hide is reckoned inferior to a fresh one, and sells for a lower price.
It must have had some tendency, therefore, to sink it in ancient, and to raise it in modern times.
They have accordingly been much less favoured.
If it is not, they will soon cease to feed them.
The less there is paid for the one, the more must be paid for the other.
The same quantity of butcher's meat would still come to market.
The demand for it would be no greater than before.
Its price, therefore, would be the same as before.
The real price of this commodity, therefore, naturally rises in the progress of improvement.
It has accordingly done so, I believe, more or less in every country.
Those metals frequently abound in countries which possess no mines.
It seems even to have no very necessary connection with that of the world in general.
Conclusion of the Digression concerning the Variations in the Value of Silver.
In proportion to that of corn, is a most decisive one.
I certainly do not pretend that the knowledge of this distinction will enable him to buy cheaper.
It may not, however, upon that account be altogether useless.
If it is not augmented, their real recompence will evidently be so much diminished.
In the present season of scarcity, the high price of corn no doubt distresses the poor.
Effects of the Progress of Improvement upon the real Price of Manufactures.
That of the manufacturing workmanship diminishes, perhaps, in all of them without exception.
A guinea may be reckoned the highest price in the present times.
But its real price has been much more reduced.
Sixteen shillings, therefore, was the price of two quarters and more than three bushels of wheat.
Two shillings contained very nearly the same quantity of silver as four of our present money.
The real price is certainly a good deal cheaper.
Tenpence was then reckoned what is called the moderate and reasonable price of a bushel of wheat.
This is a sumptuary law, too, restraining the luxury and extravagance of the poor.
Their clothing, therefore, had commonly been much more expensive.
He must however, in those times, have paid what was really equivalent to this price for them.
The art of knitting stockings was probably not known in any part of Europe.
Their hose were made of common cloth, which may have been one of the causes of their dearness.
The first person that wore stockings in England is said to have been Queen Elizabeth.
She received them as a present from the Spanish ambassador.
They had been introduced into Italy some time before.
It cost a greater quantity of labour to bring the goods to market.
This duty, indeed, would not probably be very great.
Conclusion of the Chapter.
The extension of improvement and cultivation tends to raise it directly.
The landlord's share of the produce necessarily increases with the increase of the produce.
That produce, after the rise in its real price, requires no more labour to collect it than before.
A greater proportion of it must consequently belong to the landlord.
Whatever reduces the real price of the latter, raises that of the former.
A certain proportion of this labour naturally goes to the land.
Whatever either promotes or obstructs the one, necessarily promotes or obstructs the other.
They are, indeed, too often defective in this tolerable knowledge.
When the society declines, they fall even below this.
His employers constitute the third order, that of those who live by profit.
To widen the market, and to narrow the competition, is always the interest of the dealers.
OF THE NATURE, ACCUMULATION, AND EMPLOYMENT OF STOCK.
Every man endeavours to supply, by his own industry, his own occasional wants, as they occur.
Such are in general the effects of the increase of stock upon industry and its productive powers.
This book is divided into five chapters.
OF THE DIVISION OF STOCK.
His revenue is, in this case, derived from his labour only.
This is the state of the greater part of the labouring poor in all countries.
His whole stock, therefore, is distinguished into two parts.
That part which he expects is to afford him this revenue is called his capital.
Such capitals, therefore, may very properly be called circulating capitals.
Such capitals, therefore, may very properly be called fixed capitals.
The capital of a merchant, for example, is altogether a circulating capital.
Those of the master shoemaker are a little, though but a very little, more expensive.
Those of the weaver rise a good deal above those of the shoemaker.
In other works a much greater fixed capital is required.
The farmer makes his profit by keeping the labouring cattle, and by parting with their maintenance.
The farmer makes his profit by parting with them.
The profit is made by keeping them.
Their maintenance is a circulating capital.
The whole value of the seed, too, is properly a fixed capital.
The farmer makes his profit, not by its sale, but by its increase.
It consists in the stock of food, clothes, household furniture, etc.
Which have been purchased by their proper consumers, but which are not yet entirely consumed.
In countries where masquerades are common, it is a trade to let out masquerade dresses for a night.
Upholsterers frequently let furniture by the month or by the year.
Undertakers let the furniture of funerals by the day and by the week.
It consists chiefly of the four following articles.
First, of all useful machines and instruments of trade, which facilitate and abridge labour.
These are very different from mere dwelling-houses.
They are a sort of instruments of trade, and may be considered in the same light.
Fourthly, of the acquired and useful abilities of all the inhabitants and members of the society.
It is composed likewise of four parts.
And from the sale of which they expect to derive a profit.
They require, too, a capital of the same kind to keep them in constant repair.
No fixed capital can yield any revenue but by means of a circulating capital.
It is this stock which feeds, clothes, and lodges the people.
Land even replaces, in part at least, the capitals with which fisheries and mines are cultivated.
If it is employed in procuring present enjoyment, it is a stock reserved for immediate consumption.
In the one case it is a fixed, in the other it is a circulating capital.
His real wealth is in proportion, not to his gross, but to his neat rent.
Their real wealth, too, is in proportion, not to their gross, but to their neat revenue.
In a farm where all the necessary buildings, fences, drains, communications, etc.
This support, however, still requires a certain portion of that produce.
The circulating capital of a society is in this respect different from that of an individual.
First, as those machines and instruments of trade, etc.
Secondly, as the machines and instruments of trade, etc.
When properly explained and understood, it is almost self-evident.
In proportion as this quantity is great or small, so are his real riches, his real weekly revenue.
Thirdly, and lastly, the machines and instruments of trade, etc.
This interest is the source of his gain.
One million, therefore, will be sufficient to circulate it after them.
One million we have supposed sufficient to fill that channel.
Whatever, therefore, is poured into it beyond this sum, cannot run into it, but must overflow.
One million eight hundred thousand pounds are poured into it.
But though this sum cannot be employed at home, it is too valuable to be allowed to lie idle.
The effects of it have been precisely those above described.
He is thereby enabled to make his clear gain of interest on so much a larger sum.
Hence the great trade of those companies.
Hence the great benefit which the country has derived from this trade.
Upon the coinage of so very large a sum.
Or fifteen shillings on the hundred pounds.
Little or no expense can ever be necessary for replenishing the coffers of such a bank.
When such demands actually come upon him, he can answer them sufficiently from his cash account.
But such traders and undertakers would surely be most inconvenient debtors to such a bank.
They had even done somewhat more.
The interest was five per cent.
In the year, and the commission was never less than one half per cent.
On each draught.
This practice was called raising money by circulation.
The projectors, no doubt, had in their golden dreams the most distinct vision of this great profit.
Against Edinburgh, and those bills at sight must frequently have cost A that premium.
Upon each repetition, must at that period have cost A, at least, fourteen per cent.
Upon each repetition, together with the legal interest of five per cent.
This payment, therefore, was altogether fictitious.
Its coffers were never well filled.
Only was paid up.
This sum ought to have been paid in at several different instalments.
Upon the two hundred thousand pounds which it circulated in bank notes, this five per cent.
And was consequently losing more than three per cent.
Upon more than three fourths of all its dealings.
This operation could not augment, in the smallest degree, the quantity of money to be lent.
It could only have erected this bank into a sort of general loan office for the whole country.
The parliament of Scotland, when he first proposed his project, did not think proper to adopt it.
The Bank of England is the greatest bank of circulation in Europe.
This ingraftment is said to have been for the support of public credit.
Discount, and bank notes at twenty per cent.
Interest, the common legal and market rate of those times.
At six per cent.
Interest, and was at the same time allowed to take in subscriptions for doubling its capital.
By a call of fifteen per cent.
It has continued to have an undivided capital of the same kind ever since.
The state of those two sums has continued to be the same ever since.
This sum, therefore did not increase either of those two other sums.
This rate of interest has gradually been reduced from eight to three per cent.
For some years past, the bank dividend has been at five and a half per cent.
The stability of the bank of England is equal to that of the British government.
All that it has advanced to the public must be lost before its creditors can sustain any loss.
It acts, not only as an ordinary bank, but as a great engine of state.
Upon other occasions, this great company has been reduced to the necessity of paying in sixpences.
It is a very valuable part of the capital of the country, which produces nothing to the country.
But small sums circulate much faster than large ones.
In some paper currencies of Yorkshire, it was issued even for so small a sum as a sixpence.
They are said, likewise, to have been more abundant before the institution of those currencies.
Such regulations may, no doubt, be considered as in some respect a violation of natural liberty.
Against Dumfries, though this town is not thirty miles distant from Carlisle.
Below the value of that coin.
Below that value.
It was in all the colonies very much above what could be employed in this manner.
Above the same nominal sum of the gold and silver currency of the country.
OF THE ACCUMULATION OF CAPITAL, OR OF PRODUCTIVE AND UNPRODUCTIVE LABOUR.
The former as it produces a value, may be called productive, the latter, unproductive labour.
The labour of a menial servant, on the contrary, adds to the value of nothing.
But the maintenance of a menial servant never is restored.
This produce, how great soever, can never be infinite, but must have certain limits.
It pays the wages of productive labour only.
That part, too, is generally but a small one.
It is his spare revenue only, of which productive labourers have seldom a great deal.
These are the two sorts of revenue of which the owners have generally most to spare.
They might both maintain indifferently, either productive or unproductive hands.
They seem, however, to have some predilection for the latter.
The expense of a great lord feeds generally more idle than industrious people.
This proportion is very different in rich from what it is in poor countries.
It generally, too, belonged to the landlord, and was by him advanced to the occupiers of the land.
The occupiers of land were generally bond-men, whose persons and effects were equally his property.
Their lord could at all times command their labour in peace and their service in war.
These, however, must have yielded very large profits.
The rate of interest was nowhere less than ten per cent.
And their profits must have been sufficient to afford this great interest.
Our ancestors were idle for want of a sufficient encouragement to industry.
It is better, says the proverb, to play for nothing, than to work for nothing.
The great trade of Rouen and Bourdeaux seems to be altogether the effect of their situation.
The same thing may be said of Paris, Madrid, and Vienna.
There was little trade or industry in Edinburgh before the Union.
A considerable revenue, therefore, still continues to be spent in it.
Capitals are increased by parsimony, and diminished by prodigality and misconduct.
Parsimony, and not industry, is the immediate cause of the increase of capital.
His revenue, we shall suppose, is paid him in money.
The consumption is the same, but the consumers are different.
There would have been two values instead of one.
The sole use of money is to circulate consumable goods.
Gold and silver are purchased everywhere in the same manner.
The effects of misconduct are often the same as those of prodigality.
Bankruptcy is, perhaps, the greatest and most humiliating calamity which can befal an innocent man.
The greater part of men, therefore, are sufficiently careful to avoid it.
In either case, an additional capital is almost always required.
They are themselves always, and without any exception, the greatest spendthrifts in the society.
Let them look well after their own expense, and they may safely trust private people with theirs.
If their own extravagance does not ruin the state, that of the subject never will.
The former too would, at the end of the period, be the richer man of the two.
What was formerly a seat of the family of Seymour, is now an inn upon the Bath road.
The marriage-bed of James I.
Versailles is an ornament and an honour to France, Stowe and Wilton to England.
In the one way, besides, this expense maintains productive, in the other unproductive hands.
OF STOCK LENT AT INTEREST.
The stock which is lent at interest is always considered as a capital by the lender.
The borrower may use it either as a capital, or as a stock reserved for immediate consumption.
Even they scarce ever borrow merely to spend.
What they borrow, one may say, is commonly spent before they borrow it.
In this power consist both the value and the use of the loans.
Their competition raises the wages of labour, and sinks the profits of stock.
Before the discovery of the Spanish West Indies, ten per cent.
Seems to have been the common rate of interest through the greater part of Europe.
It has since that time, in different countries, sunk to six, five, four, and three per cent.
By reducing the rate of interest, therefore, from ten to five per cent.
The funds for maintaining productive labour being the same, the demand for it would be the same.
Its price or wages, therefore, though nominally greater, would really be the same.
The profits of stock would be the same, both nominally and really.
The wages of labour are commonly computed by the quantity of silver which is paid to the labourer.
A-week are said to be the common wages of labour, and ten per cent.
They would all trade with the same advantages and disadvantages.
The capital of the country, though it might nominally be the same, would really be augmented.
Its wages would naturally rise with the demand, and yet might appear to sink.
The profits of stock would be diminished, both really and in appearance.
In some countries the interest of money has been prohibited by law.
In a country such as Great Britain, where money is lent to government at three per cent.
Is perhaps as proper as any.
Money continued to be lent in France at five per cent.
The law being evaded in several different ways.
When interest was at ten per cent.
Land was commonly sold for ten or twelve years purchase.
As interest sunk to six, five, and four per cent.
The price of land rose to twenty, five-and-twenty, and thirty years purchase.
In England it commonly sells at thirty, in France at twenty years purchase.
OF THE DIFFERENT EMPLOYMENTS OF CAPITALS.
This would generally be inconvenient to the rich, and much more so to the poor.
He is thereby enabled to employ almost his whole stock as a capital.
Some of them, perhaps, may sometimes decoy a weak customer to buy what he has no occasion for.
The retailer himself is the only productive labourer whom it immediately employs.
No equal capital puts into motion a greater quantity of productive labour than that of the farmer.
Not only his labouring servants, but his labouring cattle, are productive labourers.
It is seldom less than a fourth, and frequently more than a third, of the whole produce.
Of all the ways in which a capital can be employed, it is by far the most advantageous to society.
It is of more consequence that the capital of the manufacturer should reside within the country.
It may, however, be very useful to the country, though it should not reside within it.
That which is employed in the trade of exportation has the least effect of any of the three.
They do not appear to have been eminent for foreign trade.
It comprehends both the inland and the coasting trade.
The foreign trade of consumption is employed in purchasing foreign goods for home consumption.
The other is a Portuguese one.
It seems even to have one advantage over any other equally round-about foreign trade.
It does not, however, seem essential to the nature of the trade that it should be so.
It maybe presumed, that he actually does so upon some particular occasions.
OF THE DIFFERENT PROGRESS OF OPULENCE IN DIFFERENT NATIONS  CHAPTER I.
OF THE NATURAL PROGRESS OF OPULENCE.
The country supplies the town with the means of subsistence and the materials of manufacture.
The inhabitants of the town, and those of the country, are mutually the servants of one another.
The smith erects some sort of iron, the weaver some sort of linen or woollen manufactory.
All of them were engrossed, and the greater part by a few great proprietors.
In those disorderly times, every great landlord was a sort of petty prince.
His tenants were his subjects.
He was their judge, and in some respects their legislator in peace and their leader in war.
Hence the origin of the right of primogeniture, and of what is called lineal succession.
Entails are the natural consequences of the law of primogeniture.
They were altogether unknown to the Romans.
When great landed estates were a sort of principalities, entails might not be unreasonable.
It seldom happens, however, that a great proprietor is a great improver.
He had no leisure to attend to the cultivation and improvement of land.
In the ancient state of Europe, the occupiers of land were all tenants at will.
They were supposed to belong more directly to the land than to their master.
They could, therefore, be sold with it, but not separately.
They were not, however, capable of acquiring property.
Whatever they acquired was acquired to their master, and he could take it from them at pleasure.
It was at his expense.
The seed, the cattle, and the instruments of husbandry, were all his.
It was for his benefit.
Such slaves could acquire nothing but their daily maintenance.
In the time of Aristotle, it had not been much better in ancient Greece.
The planting of sugar and tobacco can afford the expense of slave cultivation.
The raising of corn, it seems, in the present times, cannot.
In our sugar colonies.
Both can afford the expense of slave cultivation but sugar can afford it still better than tobacco.
They are called in Latin Coloni Partiarii.
They have been so long in disuse in England, that at present I know no English name for them.
There is, however, one very essential difference between them.
Published a bull for the general emancipation of slaves.
A tax, therefore, which amounted to one half, must have been an effectual bar to it.
This species of tenants still subsists in some parts of Scotland.
They are called steel-bow tenants.
In England, therefore the security of the tenant is equal to that of the proprietor.
The proprietors of land were anciently the legislators of every part of Europe.
These services, therefore, being almost entirely arbitrary, subjected the tenant to many vexations.
It still subsists in France and Germany.
The public taxes, to which they were subject, were as irregular and oppressive as the services.
The taille, as it still subsists in France may serve as an example of those ancient tallages.
No gentleman, nor even any burgher, who has stock, will submit to this degradation.
Under all these discouragements, little improvement could be expected from the occupiers of land.
The station of a farmer, besides, is, from the nature of things, inferior to that of a proprietor.
There are more such, perhaps, in England than in any other European monarchy.
OF THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF CITIES AND TOWNS, AFTER THE FALL OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.
They, in return, usually paid to their protector a sort of annual poll-tax.
I reckon it not improbable that they were, though I cannot produce any direct evidence of it.
Nor was this all.
In other countries, much greater and more extensive jurisdictions were frequently granted to them.
See also Pfeffel in the Remarkable events under Frederick II.
And his Successors of the House of Suabia.
The burghers naturally hated and feared the lords.
King John of England, for example, appears to have been a most munificent benefactor to his towns.
Of France lost all authority over his barons.
Their advice consisted of two different proposals.
Italy lay in the centre of what was at that time the improved and civilized part of the world.
They were banished from thence by the tyranny of one of Machiavel's heroes, Castruccio Castracani.
The more ancient manufacture of Lucca was likewise carried on with foreign materials.
The manufactures of Flanders were carried on chiefly with Spanish and English wool.
In a small bulk it frequently contains the price of a great quantity of rude produce.
Such manufactures are the offspring of agriculture.
HOW THE COMMERCE OF TOWNS CONTRIBUTED TO THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE COUNTRY.
Those different habits naturally affect their temper and disposition in every sort of business.
The merchant is commonly a bold, a country gentleman a timid undertaker.
This, though it has been the least observed, is by far the most important of all their effects.
Mr Hume is the only writer who, so far as I know, has hitherto taken notice of it.
It seems to be common in all nations to whom commerce and manufactures are little known.
He is thereby saved from the embarrassment of either too large a company, or too large a family.
No other person had sufficient authority to do this.
The king, in particular, had not.
The same cause gradually led them to dismiss the unnecessary part of their tenants.
To gratify the most childish vanity was the sole motive of the great proprietors.
To purchase land, is, everywhere in Europe, a most unprofitable employment of a small capital.
So much land would come to market, that it could no longer sell at a monopoly price.
Commerce and manufactures have accordingly been continually advancing during all this period.
Except in times of scarcity, the exportation of corn is not only free, but encouraged by a bounty.
Such, however, notwithstanding, is the state of its cultivation.
The law of the country has never given the same direct encouragement to agriculture.
OF SYSTEMS OF POLITICAL ECONOMY.
It proposes to enrich both the people and the sovereign.
The one may be called the system of commerce, the other that of agriculture.
It is the modern system, and is best understood in our own country and in our own times.
OF THE PRINCIPLE OF THE COMMERCIAL OR MERCANTILE SYSTEM.
The great affair, we always find, is to get money.
When that is obtained, there is no difficulty in making any subsequent purchase.
They wanted to know if the country was rich enough to be worth the conquering.
Of the two, the Tartar notion, perhaps, was the nearest to the truth.
Mr Locke remarks a distinction between money and other moveable goods.
The like policy anciently took place both in France and England.
They remonstrated, therefore, against this prohibition as hurtful to trade.
Mr Mun compares this operation of foreign trade to the seed-time and harvest of agriculture.
That if the exchange between England and Holland, for example, was five per cent.
Those arguments were partly solid and partly sophistical.
They paid so much dearer for the bills which their bankers granted them upon those countries.
Such as they were, however, those arguments convinced the people to whom they were addressed.
But to know in what manner it enriched the country, was no part of their business.
Those arguments, therefore, produced the wished-for effect.
The exportation of foreign coin and of bullion was made free.
In Holland, and in some other places, this liberty was extended even to the coin of the country.
It neither brought money into the country, it was said, nor carried any out of it.
The navy of England would not be sufficient.
All the sanguinary laws of Spain and Portugal are not able to keep their gold and silver at home.
If it were even to take pains to prevent their importation, it would not be able to effectuate it.
If the materials of manufacture are wanted, industry must stop.
If provisions are wanted, the people must starve.
But if money is wanted, barter will supply its place, though with a good deal of inconveniency.
No complaint, however, is more common than that of a scarcity of money.
It is sometimes general through a whole mercantile town and the country in its neighbourhood.
Over-trading is the common cause of it.
Before their projects can be brought to bear, their stock is gone, and their credit with it.
They run about everywhere to borrow money, and everybody tells them that they have none to lend.
Fleets and armies are maintained, not with gold and silver, but with consumable goods.
Something, however, is generally withdrawn from this channel in the case of foreign war.
By the great number of people who are maintained abroad, fewer are maintained at home.
Fewer goods are circulated there, and less money becomes necessary to circulate them.
In the pound land-tax, and what was annually borrowed of the sinking fund.
The kings of England had no accumulated treasure.
We never heard of any extraordinary quantity of plate being melted down.
Since the late recoinage of the gold, however, it is believed to have been a good deal under-rated.
Few people wanted money who had wherewithal to pay for it.
But when they are sent abroad merely to pay a debt, he gets no returns, and consequently no profit.
No accumulation could have supported so great an annual profusion.
There is no annual produce, even of gold and silver, which could have supported it.
Some part of this surplus, however, may still continue to bring back a return.
It is otherwise with the exportation of manufactures.
Buying and selling was transacted by means of money in England then as well as now.
Every Tartar chief, accordingly, has a treasure.
Are said to have been very great.
The French kings of the Merovingian race had all treasures.
When they divided their kingdom among their different children, they divided their treasures too.
They are likewise less disposed to do so.
It is, however, a most insignificant part of it.
It is not by the importation of gold and silver that the discovery of America has enriched Europe.
By the abundance of the American mines, those metals have become cheaper.
So far Europe has, no doubt, gained a real conveniency, though surely a very trifling one.
It is difficult to say which is most trifling, this inconveniency, or the opposite conveniency.
Neither the one nor the other could have made any very essential change in the state of Europe.
The discovery of America, however, certainly made a most essential one.
The rest were mere savages.
It is therefore unnecessary to say any thing further about either.
The restraints upon importation were of two kinds.
Drawbacks were given upon two different occasions.
OF RESTRAINTS UPON IMPORTATION FROM FOREIGN COUNTRIES OF SUCH GOODS AS CAN BE PRODUCED AT HOME.
The linen manufacture has not yet obtained it, but is making great strides towards it.
The general industry of the society can never exceed what the capital of the society can employ.
It is his own advantage, indeed, and not that of the society, which he has in view.
No part of it need ever come to Amsterdam.
The produce of industry is what it adds to the subject or materials upon which it is employed.
Nor is it always the worse for the society that it was no part of it.
I have never known much good done by those who affected to trade for the public good.
If it cannot, it must generally be hurtful.
The tailor does not attempt to make his own shoes, but buys them of the shoemaker.
The shoemaker does not attempt to make his own clothes, but employs a tailor.
The farmer attempts to make neither the one nor the other, but employs those different artificers.
It will require a very great one to enable them to do so in the rude produce of the soil.
By land they carry themselves to market.
Those parts of Great Britain which border upon the Irish sea are all grazing countries.
Fat cattle could not be drove so far.
The province of Holland, accordingly, is said to follow this maxim at present.
It does not appear that the price of butcher's meat has ever been sensibly affected by it.
Corn is a much more bulky commodity than butcher's meat.
A pound of wheat at a penny is as dear as a pound of butcher's meat at fourpence.
The first is, when some particular sort of industry is necessary for the defence of the country.
The following are the principal dispositions of this act.
If imported in ships of any other country, the penalty is forfeiture of ship and goods.
This regulation, too, was probably intended against the Dutch.
By this regulation, a very heavy burden was laid upon their supplying Great Britain.
They are as wise, however, as if they had all been dictated by the most deliberate wisdom.
No other countries could support so great a disorder.
Nations, accordingly, seldom fail to retaliate in this manner.
Those workmen however, who suffered by our neighbours prohibition, will not be benefited by ours.
The disorder which this would occasion might no doubt be very considerable.
The greater part of such workmen, too, are occasionally employed in country labour.
French goods have never been omitted in any of those general subsidies or duties of five per cent.
But upon the greater part of goods, those duties are equivalent to a prohibition.
They are, accordingly, as might well be expected, still more unreasonable.
They are so, even upon the principles of the commercial system.
The course of exchange is, perhaps, almost equally so.
In some it is more, in others it is less worn, clipt, and otherwise degenerated from that standard.
Against England.
Below its standard value.
Nearer its standard.
If the computed exchange with France, therefore, was not more than two or three per cent.
Against England, the real exchange might have been in its favour.
In France a duty of eight per cent.
Thirdly, and lastly, In some places, as at Amsterdam, Hamburg, Venice, etc.
They are paid in the common currency of the country.
What is called bank money, is always of more value than the same nominal sum of common currency.
It will by no means follow, however, that the real exchange was against it.
Since the reformation of the gold coin, it has been in favour of London, even with those places.
Digression concerning Banks of Deposit, particularly concerning that of Amsterdam.
Such a state, therefore, by reforming its coin, will not always be able to reform its currency.
The agio of the bank of Hamburg, for example, which is said to be commonly about fourteen per cent.
Below that of good money fresh from the mint.
For the value which remained after this small deduction was made, it gave a credit in its books.
By demanding payment of the bank, the owner of a bank credit would lose this premium.
While it remained in the coffers of the bank, its superiority was known and ascertained.
At present they are supposed to constitute but a very small part of it.
This credit is generally about five per cent.
Below the mint price of such bullion.
The fineness of gold, it has been said, is more difficult to be ascertained than that of silver.
Frauds are more easily practised, and occasion a greater loss in the most precious metal.
Above the mint price.
GOLD Portugal coin.
In order to obtain a new receipt for another six months.
If he has no bank money of his own, he must purchase it of those who have it.
If he has none of his own, he must buy them of those who have them.
Above the bank price.
The agio of five per cent.
Therefore, which he commonly pays for it, is paid, not for an imaginary, but for a real value.
Above the mint price.
The price which he pays for it, therefore, is paid likewise for a real value.
Below their current value.
For the keeping.
This receipt will frequently bring no price in the market.
Must be paid for the keeping, which would be mere loss to the holder of the receipt.
If the agio of the bank, however, should at any time fall to three per cent.
But the agio of the bank being now generally about five per cent.
Such receipts are frequently allowed to expire, or, as they express it, to fall to the bank.
Must be paid for the keeping of them, before they can be taken out again.
The five per cent.
The sum of bank money, for which the receipts are expired, must be very considerable.
No demand can be made upon the bank, but by means of a recipice or receipt.
The holders of them might form extravagant expectations, and, instead of two or three per cent.
The holders of receipts, who had no bank money, must have received within two or three per cent.
Of the value of the deposit for which their respective receipts had been granted.
Agio, and to buy it in again at four per cent.
The city is guarantee that it should be so.
The bank is under the direction of the four reigning burgomasters who are changed every year.
Those pieces, therefore, must have lain there from that time.
Nothing but conjecture can be offered concerning it.
The city of Amsterdam derives a considerable revenue from the bank.
The person who neglects to balance his account twice in the year, forfeits twenty-five guilders.
For the sum overdrawn, and his order is set aside into the bargain.
It makes a profit, likewise, by selling bank money at five per cent.
Agio, and buying it in at four.
Public utility, however, and not revenue, was the original object of this institution.
Its object was to relieve the merchants from the inconvenience of a disadvantageous exchange.
The revenue which has arisen from it was unforeseen, and may be considered as accidental.
Of the Unreasonableness of those extraordinary Restraints, upon other Principles.
Both suppositions are false.
Almost all countries exchange with one another, partly native and partly foreign goods.
It would give some revenue to those of England.
On the contrary, it would, in most cases, be augmented.
A direct foreign trade of consumption is always more advantageous than a round-about one.
I answer, that the trade with the alehouse is not necessarily a losing trade.
People are seldom guilty of excess in what is their daily fare.
A gentleman drunk with ale has scarce ever been seen among us.
They favour the wine trade of Portugal, and discourage that of France.
As they give us their custom, it is pretended we should give them ours.
Their interest is, in this respect, directly opposite to that of the great body of the people.
They even profit by his underselling the poorer workmen who deal in the same way with him.
France is the nearest neighbour to Great Britain.
This is the balance of the annual produce and consumption.
Of these encouragements, what are called drawbacks seem to be the most reasonable.
Extended to three years.
They may, however, upon paying certain duties, be imported and warehoused for exportation.
But upon such exportation no part of these duties is drawn back.
Not only half the old subsidy, but the second twenty-five per cent.
Is retained upon the exportation of all French goods.
The two imposts of five per cent.
The duties, therefore, of which a part is retained, would never have been paid.
We cannot give our workmen a monopoly in the foreign, as we have done in the home market.
We cannot force foreigners to buy their goods, as we have done our own countrymen.
The next best expedient, it has been thought, therefore, is to pay them for buying.
The capital which the farmer employed in raising it must likewise be taken into the account.
To do so was the avowed purpose of the institution.
In this particular commodity, therefore, this second tax is by much the heaviest of the two.
The quarter higher than it otherwise would have been in the actual state of the crop.
Upon every quarter which they themselves consume.
To the payment of the second.
But neither the bounty, it is evident, nor any other human institution, can have any such effect.
In that of home made commodities, it can give them none at all.
The tax and prohibition operate in two different ways.
These were the corn merchants, the exporters and importers of corn.
No bounty upon exportation, no monopoly of the home market, can raise that value.
Bounties upon production, however, have been very rarely granted.
How far this is true, I know not.
That bounties upon exportation have been abused, to many fraudulent purposes, is very well known.
Something like a bounty upon production, however, has been granted upon some particular occasions.
The herrings caught and cured at sea are called sea-sticks.
Upon every barrel of merchantable herrings.
Two bushels are the supposed average of Scotch salt.
In Scotland, foreign salt is very little used for any other purpose but the curing of fish.
It would appear, therefore, that it is principally foreign salt that is used in the fisheries.
And more than two-thirds of the buss-caught herrings are exported.
But the herring-bus bounty contributes to no such good purpose.
The barrel, I have been assured, was the common price of white herrings.
For these last five years, it has, at an average, been at twenty-five shillings the barrel.
In general, however, I have every reason to believe they have been quite otherwise.
The expense of premiums, besides, is very trifling, that of bounties very great.
Bounties are sometimes called premiums, as drawbacks are sometimes called bounties.
Digression concerning the Corn Trade and Corn Laws.
The great importance of this subject must justify the length of the digression.
The interest of the inland corn dealer is the same.
When he foresees that provisions are likely to run short, he puts them upon short allowance.
The seasons most unfavourable to the crop are those of excessive drought or excessive rain.
The drought in Bengal, a few years ago, might probably have occasioned a very great dearth.
For the quarter of wheat, and for that of other grain in proportion.
The ancient policy of most other parts of Europe was no better than that of England.
They endeavoured, therefore, to annihilate his trade altogether.
Necessary in order to grant this licence.
Let us suppose, for example, that in the particular town where he lived, ten per cent.
If he valued them lower, he lost a part of the profit of his manufacturing capital.
He may hurt himself, and he generally does so.
Jack-of-all-trades will never be rich, says the proverb.
This statute, however, authorises in some measure two very absurd popular prejudices.
Duties       Duties.
Malt is prohibited by the annual malt-tax bill.
Subsequent laws still further increased those duties.
It does so, however, indirectly.
The freedom of exportation enables it to extend cultivation for the supply of foreign nations.
The quarter, and that of other grain in proportion.
That of the merchant-exporter may, and in fact sometimes is.
But very few countries have entirely adopted this liberal system.
In such great countries as France or England, it scarce ever can.
The laws concerning corn may everywhere be compared to the laws concerning religion.
By this system of laws, therefore, the carrying trade was in effect prohibited.
This difference of situation, however, may easily be accounted for from two different causes.
The price at which it ceased before.
The price at which it ceased before.
This liberty, indeed, extends to no more than twenty-five of the different ports of Great Britain.
So far this law seems evidently an improvement upon the ancient system.
So far, therefore, this law seems to be inferior to the ancient system.
It may perhaps in due time prepare the way for a better.
OF TREATIES OF COMMERCE.
The trade could not go on long if it did.
The following is a literal translation of that treaty, which consists of three articles only.
It has been celebrated, however, as a masterpiece of the commercial policy of England.
The sum had probably been exaggerated.
Our merchants were, some years ago, out of humour with the crown of Portugal.
The rest must all be sent abroad, and exchanged for consumable goods of some kind or other.
This difference, however, would surely be too insignificant to deserve the public attention.
Almost all our gold, it is said, comes from Portugal.
With other nations, the balance of trade is either against as, or not much in our favour.
It is the same case with the coin.
And the silver more than eight per cent.
Below its standard weight.
Coined gold and silver would be more valuable than uncoined.
In France, however, though the seignorage is eight per cent.
No sensible inconveniency of this kind is found to arise from it.
Article Seigneurage, p.
Abbot de Bazinghen, Conseiller-Commissaire en la Cour des Monnoies à Paris.
If this difference is less than the seignorage, there will be loss instead of profit.
If it is equal to the seignorage, there will be neither profit nor loss.
Upon the coinage, there would have been a loss of three per cent.
Upon the melting down of the gold coin.
If the seignorage had been two per cent.
There would have been neither profit nor loss.
If the seignorage had been one per cent.
There would have been a profit but of one per cent.
Only, instead of two per cent.
Before the late recoinage, when the gold currency of England was two per cent.
Below its standard weight, as there was no seignorage, it was two per cent.
Below the value of that quantity of standard gold bullion which it ought to have contained.
More than it was worth after the coinage.
But if there had been a seignorage of two per cent.
Upon the coinage, the common gold currency, though two per cent.
They would, indeed, have had the seignorage to pay, which being two per cent.
Their loss upon the whole transaction would have been two per cent.
Exactly the same, but no greater than it actually was.
If the seignorage had been five per cent.
And the gold currency only two per cent.
Below its standard weight, the bank would, in this case, have gained three per cent.
If the seignorage had been only one per cent.
And the gold currency two per cent.
Below its standard weight, the bank would, in this case, have lost only one per cent.
To pay, their loss upon the whole transaction would have been exactly two per cent.
In the same manner as in all other cases.
The tax is finally paid by the last purchaser or consumer.
But money is a commodity, with regard to which every man is a merchant.
But if there had been a seignorage of four or five per cent.
The bank, instead of losing every year about two and a half per cent.
It is one of its many admirable expedients for enriching the country.
Of the Motives for Establishing New Colonies.
Nothing can be more plain and distinct than the interest which directed every such establishment.
To satisfy them in some measure, therefore, they frequently proposed to send out a new colony.
The Latin word (colonia) signifies simply a plantation.
The great profits of the Venetians tempted the avidity of the Portuguese.
The situation of those countries was at that time very imperfectly known in Europe.
Instead of the wealth, cultivation, and populousness of China and Indostan, he found, in St.
It consisted in Indian corn, yams, potatoes, bananas, etc.
The pious purpose of converting them to Christianity sanctified the injustice of the project.
This proposal was approved of by the council.
Domingo, which have never been wrought since.
The tax upon silver continued for a long time to be a fifth of the gross produce.
It was reduced to a tenth only in the course of the present century.
But the first adventurers do not appear to have been much interested about silver.
Nothing less precious than gold seemed worthy of their attention.
Every Spaniard who sailed to America expected to find an El Dorado.
Fortune, too, did upon this what she has done upon very few other occasions.
This fifth was accordingly reserved to the crown.
They have hitherto been disappointed in both.
Causes of the Prosperity of New Colonies.
Every colonist gets more land than he can possibly cultivate.
He has no rent, and scarce any taxes, to pay.
The liberal reward of labour encourages marriage.
Waste lands, of the greatest natural fertility, are to be had for a trifle.
He does not, therefore, dispute about wages, but is willing to employ labour at any price.
The high wages of labour encourage population.
The history of the Roman colonies is by no means so brilliant.
But the progress of no one of them seems ever to have been very rapid.
Their situation has placed them less in the view, and less in the power of their mother country.
The plough was unknown among them.
They were ignorant of the use of iron.
They had no coined money, nor any established instrument of commerce of any kind.
Their commerce was carried on by barter.
A sort of wooden spade was their principal instrument of agriculture.
No one colony in America is supposed to contain so great a number of people of European extraction.
The French, who attempted to settle in Florida, were all murdered by the Spaniards.
The small islands of St.
The French colony of St.
During this period, the population and improvement of this colony increased very fast.
The course of its prosperity returned as soon as it was relieved from that oppression.
The other sugar colonies of France are in general all very thriving.
Such estates go all to one person, and are in effect entailed and unalienable.
The engrossing of land, in effect, destroys this plenty and cheapness.
The expense of their own civil government has always been very moderate.
Though sufficiently decent, is not accompanied with any expensive pomp or parade.
Their ecclesiastical government is conducted upon a plan equally frugal.
Over and above all this, the clergy are, in all of them, the greatest engrossers of land.
This, too, was the policy of Denmark, till the reign of the late king.
The profit of those merchants would be almost equally exorbitant and oppressive.
Grain is naturally the first and principal object of the culture of all new colonies.
The non-enumerated commodities could originally be exported to all parts of the world.
All of them taken together, they make a great internal market for the produce of one another.
In a more advanced state, they might be really oppressive and insupportable.
But this might not always be for the interest of the mother country.
In none of the English colonies is there any hereditary nobility.
In Connecticut and Rhode Island, they elected the governor.
In all European colonies, the culture of the sugar-cane is carried on by negro slaves.
Those adventures were all at the private risk and expense of the adventurers.
The government of Spain contributed scarce any thing to any of them.
Such are the advantages which the colonies of America have derived from the policy of Europe.
That those events have done so, however, cannot be doubted.
By being carried thither, they create a new and more extensive market for that surplus produce.
They raise its value, and thereby contribute to encourage its increase.
The Roman colonies furnished occasionally both the one and the other.
The Greek colonies sometimes furnished a military force, but seldom any revenue.
They seldom acknowledged themselves subject to the dominion of the mother city.
They were generally her allies in war, but very seldom her subjects in peace.
Other countries must afterwards buy it of her.
It must likewise contribute more to encourage her industry.
England, indeed, would not, in this case, have had any advantage over other countries.
The English capital, which had before carried on but a part of it, was now to carry on the whole.
May all be found in the overgrowth of the colony trade.
It was at least equal, perhaps superior to the united navies of France and Holland.
But this great naval power could not, in either of those wars, be owing to the act of navigation.
Both the colonies and their trade were inconsiderable then, in comparison of what they are how.
The island of Jamaica was an unwholesome desert, little inhabited, and less cultivated.
New York and New Jersey were in the possession of the Dutch, the half of St.
Christopher's in that of the French.
The island of Antigua, the two Carolinas, Pennsylvania, Georgia, and Nova Scotia, were not planted.
It renders their superiority greater, or their inferiority less, than it otherwise would be.
New colonies, it has already been observed, are always understocked.
But, though he make up the loss of his correspondent, he cannot make up that of Great Britain.
At the port of London, indeed, it is commonly sold for ready money: the rule is Weigh and pay.
Such are the unfortunate effects of all the regulations of the mercantile system.
There are few hands to spare for the necessary, and none for the ornamental manufactures.
Spain and Portugal were manufacturing countries before they had any considerable colonies.
Since they had the richest and most fertile in the world, they have both ceased to be so.
By raising the rate of mercantile profit, the monopoly discourages the improvement of land.
If the profit is less, mercantile employments will draw capital from the improvement of land.
For they did not find it convenient to buy every part of it.
A clause in the famous act of navigation established this truly shopkeeper proposal into a law.
This whole expense is, in reality, a bounty which has been given in order to support a monopoly.
No particular resource, therefore, can be drawn from this particular order.
The colonies may be taxed either by their own assemblies, or by the parliament of Great Britain.
The care of that defence and support is not entrusted to them.
It is not their business, and they have no regular means of information concerning it.
Upon being refused, the social war broke out.
The idea of representation was unknown in ancient times.
It was no longer possible to distinguish between who was, and who was not, a Roman citizen.
No tribe could know its own members.
That constitution, on the contrary, would be completed by it, and seems to be imperfect without it.
I have yet heard of none, however, which appear insurmountable.
But this great consumption is almost entirely supplied by France, Flanders, Holland, and Germany.
Spain and Portugal furnish but a small part of it.
The advantages resulting from their trade, it has been obliged to share with many other countries.
Monopoly of one kind or another, indeed, seems to be the sole engine of the mercantile system.
Monopolies of this kind are properly established against the very nation which erects them.
The establishment of such a company necessarily encourages adventurers.
The English company have not yet had time to establish in Bengal so perfectly destructive a system.
The plan of their government, however, has had exactly the same tendency.
In almost all countries, the revenue of the sovereign is drawn from that of the people.
It is his interest, therefore, to increase as much as possible that annual produce.
But the reverse of this is their interest as merchants.
As sovereigns, their interest is exactly the same with that of the country which they govern.
As merchants, their interest is directly opposite to that interest.
Their proper business, however, is that of merchants.
See book v, chap.
CONCLUSION OF THE MERCANTILE SYSTEM.
Such importation, therefore, instead of being encouraged, has frequently been prohibited.
The yard, even this small duty upon the importation of brown linen yarn was taken away.
It does not, however, like the American bounty, extend to the importation of undressed flax.
It would have been too great a discouragement to the cultivation of that plant in Great Britain.
The interest of our American colonies was regarded as the same with that of the mother country.
Their wealth was considered as our wealth.
Like the laws of Draco, these laws may be said to be all written in blood.
The owner of the ship, knowing this offence, forfeits all his interest in the ship and furniture.
By a subsequent statute, the master suffers six months imprisonment.
For every pound weight, to be paid by the owner or packer.
These regulations take place through the whole kingdom.
But in the particular counties of Kent and Sussex, the restrictions are still more troublesome.
For every pound weight is likewise incurred.
Fine cloth is made altogether of Spanish wool.
It is observed by the very accurate and intelligent author of the Memoirs of Wool, the Reverend Mr.
If it is not, they will soon cease to feed them.
The less there is paid for the one, the more must be paid for the other.
It is exported, it is well known, in great quantities.
This illegal exportation is advantageous to nobody but the smuggler.
Our graziers still continue subject to the old monopoly.
Manufacturers of all kinds, collected together in numerous bodies in all great cities, easily can.
The exportation of all metals was prohibited.
Brass manufactures of all sorts may be exported duty free.
Therefore, chap.
Coals may be considered both as a material of manufacture, and as an instrument of trade.
The maxim is so perfectly self-evident, that it would be absurd to attempt to prove it.
Colbert, the famous minister of Lewis XIV.
One of those causes appeared to be the preference given, by the institutions of Mr.
Colbert, to the industry of the towns above that of the country.
The first is the class of the proprietors of land.
Such expenses are in this system called ground expenses (depenses foncieres).
Its profits are the fund destined for the maintenance of their employer.
It is, therefore, altogether a barren and unproductive expense.
It is, therefore, a productive expense.
Mercantile stock is equally barren and unproductive with manufacturing stock.
It only continues the existence of its own value, without producing any new value.
They are only the repayment of a part of the expense which must be laid out in employing it.
It adds, indeed, greatly to the value of some particular parts of it.
The working of that lace costs him, perhaps, two years labour.
It is otherwise with the work of farmers and country labourers.
They annually reproduce nothing but those funds.
Those workmen and their employers are properly the servants of the proprietors and cultivators.
They are only servants who work without doors, as menial servants work within.
Both the one and the other, however, are equally maintained at the expense of the same masters.
The labour of both is equally unproductive.
It adds nothing to the value of the sum total of the rude produce of the land.
The unproductive class, however, is not only useful, but greatly useful, to the other two classes.
It can never be the interest of the unproductive class to oppress the other two classes.
The superior produce of the one class, however, does not, render the other barren or unproductive.
A small quantity of manufactured produce, purchases a great quantity of rude produce.
The inhabitants of the other must always enjoy a much smaller quantity.
There is, upon this account, little variety in the greater part of their works.
The policy of China favours agriculture more than all other employments.
The Chinese have little respect for foreign trade.
Your beggarly commerce! was the language in which the mandarins of Pekin used to talk to Mr.
De Lange, in Bell's Travels, vol.
The government of both countries was particularly attentive to the interest of agriculture.
It was long the granary of the Roman empire.
The work of the farmer must, upon that account, generally have been dearer than that of the latter.
The Hungarian mines, it is remarked by Mr.
Silk sold for its weight in gold.
The pound weight.
The Roman pound, it must be remembered, contained only twelve of our avoirdupois ounces.
This high price, indeed, seems to have been principally owing to the dye.
This high price, too, is not said to have arisen from the dye.
When the expense of fashionable dress is very great, the variety must be very small.
They are so far, perhaps, more inconsistent than even the mercantile system.
But still it really, and in the end, encourages that species of industry which it means to promote.
The following book, therefore, will naturally be divided into three chapters.
The reader, I believe, may depend upon the accuracy of both accounts.
Per bushel, supposed to be the quantity, at a medium, used in curing each barrel is added, viz.
OF THE REVENUE OF THE SOVEREIGN OR COMMONWEALTH    CHAPTER I.
OF THE EXPENSES OF THE SOVEREIGN OR COMMONWEALTH.
Of the Expense of Defence.
They all go to war together, therefore, and everyone does as well as he can.
Among the Tartars, even the women have been frequently known to engage in battle.
The rest are commonly dissipated and dispersed in the desert.
The ordinary life, the ordinary exercise of a Tartar or Arab, prepares him sufficiently for war.
Running, wrestling, cudgel-playing, throwing the javelin, drawing the bow, etc.
Are the common pastimes of those who live in the open air, and are all of them the images of war.
An army of hunters can seldom exceed two or three hundred men.
An army of shepherds, on the contrary, may sometimes amount to two or three hundred thousand.
They are soldiers but soldiers not quite so much masters of their exercise.
The old men, the women and children, at least, must remain at home, to take care of the habitation.
Those two causes are, the progress of manufactures, and the improvement in the art of war.
Militias have been of several different kinds.
In other countries, the militia has not only been exercised, but regimented.
The Highland militia, when it served under its own chieftains, had some advantage of the same kind.
In point of obedience, they were always much inferior to what is reported of the Tartars and Arabs.
What they were before they took the field, is of little importance.
The fall of Carthage, and the consequent elevation of Rome, is the second.
Annibal was ill supplied from home.
In order to defend Carthage, it became necessary to recal the standing army of Annibal.
The event of that day determined the fate of the two rival republics.
The standing army of Macedon made some resistance to their arms.
The militias of some barbarous nations defended themselves much better.
Many different causes contributed to relax the discipline of the Roman armies.
Its extreme severity was, perhaps, one of those causes.
It was, therefore, tolerably well exercised, and tolerably well disciplined.
A well regulated standing army is superior to every militia.
It is the instrument which executes and maintains all his other regulations.
Men of republican principles have been jealous of a standing army, as dangerous to liberty.
The standing army of Caesar destroyed the Roman republic.
The standing army of Cromwell turned the long parliament out of doors.
On the contrary, it may, in some cases, be favourable to liberty.
Both their arms and their ammunition are become more expensive.
Men who have no property, can injure one another only in their persons or reputations.
It is otherwise with the injuries to property.
The benefit of the person who does the injury is often equal to the loss of him who suffers it.
Wherever there is a great property, there is great inequality.
Civil government supposes a certain subordination.
He is a very strong man, who, by mere strength of body, can force two weak ones to obey him.
The qualifications of the mind can alone give very great authority.
The second of those causes or circumstances, is the superiority of age.
Age is a plain and palpable quality, which admits of no dispute.
The third of those causes or circumstances, is the superiority of fortune.
The authority of fortune, however, is very great, even in an opulent and civilized society.
The first period of society, that of hunters, admits of no such inequality.
There is, therefore, little or no authority or subordination in this period of society.
The fourth of those causes or circumstances, is the superiority of birth.
Upstart greatness is everywhere less respected than ancient greatness.
The distinction of birth not only may, but always does, take place among nations of shepherds.
Birth and fortune are evidently the two circumstances which principally set one man above another.
Among nations of shepherds, both those causes operate with their full force.
He can command the united force of a greater number of people than any of them.
His military power is greater than that of any of them.
His birth and fortune thus naturally procure him some sort of judicial authority.
Justice, too, might frequently be delayed, in order that this present might be repeated.
When he exercised it by a bailiff, indeed, redress might sometimes be had.
It might, and it frequently was proposed, that he should regulate and ascertain them.
Justice was then said to be administered gratis.
Justice, however, never was in reality administered gratis in any country.
It is very easy, where the judge is the principal person who can reap any benefit from them.
Sterling a-year.
The distribution of these epices, too, is according to the diligence of the judges.
Originally, the courts of law gave damages only for breach of contract.
In such cases, therefore, the remedy of the courts of law was sufficient.
It was not so in others.
A like temptation might, perhaps, occasion a like corruption in the form of law proceedings.
A praetor, therefore, was appointed to administer it in his stead.
They universally, therefore, discharged themselves of it, by appointing a deputy, bailiff or judge.
Of the Expense of public Works and public Institutions.
Of the public Works and Institutions for facilitating the Commerce of the Society.
And, first, of those which are necessary for facilitating Commerce in general.
It seems scarce possible to invent a more equitable way of maintaining such works.
His payment is exactly in proportion to his gain.
It seems impossible to imagine a more equitable method of raising a tax.
When the toll upon carriages of luxury, upon coaches, post-chaises, etc.
When high-roads, bridges, canals, etc.
They must be made, consequently, as it is proper to make them.
A high-road, though entirely neglected, does not become altogether impassable, though a canal does.
The plan itself, however, seems liable to several very important objections.
According to the policy of Great Britain, therefore, they would probably he augmented very fast.
Under such an administration therefore, such works are almost always entirely neglected.
They are, besides, much more easily corrected.
The first English embassies to Russia arose altogether from commercial interests.
It has not always been so.
Since that time, at least, there have been no complaints against them.
The conduct of those companies had probably given occasion to those two acts of parliament.
And, in reality, the former seem to be much more unfit for this sort of service than the latter.
For the first of these purposes, the fine for admission is limited to forty shillings.
No committeeman can be continued in office for more than three years together.
It would seem, however, that it had not.
They could do so.
The garrisons at Gibraltar and Minorca, accordingly, have never been neglected.
In a joint-stock company, on the contrary, each partner is bound only to the extent of his share.
The trade of a joint-stock company is always managed by a court of directors.
Without an exclusive privilege, they have commonly mismanaged the trade.
With an exclusive privilege, they have both mismanaged and confined it.
Their exclusive charter has not been confirmed by act of parliament.
But, notwithstanding this heavy tax, the company were still unable to maintain the competition.
Their stock and credit gradually declined.
But their success in this more confined trade was not greater than in their former extensive one.
They were all equally unsuccessful.
Their necessary expense is much smaller.
Their mercantile projects were not much better conducted.
The petition was too reasonable not to be granted.
For many years, therefore, they were not much disturbed by interlopers.
Through the whole of that of James II.
Reduced them to great distress.
Provided the subscribers were erected into a new East India company, with exclusive privileges.
Upon the same conditions.
Than seven hundred thousand pounds at four.
They had, before this, gradually augmented their dividend from about six to ten per cent.
They were attempting about this time to raise it still further, to twelve and a-half per cent.
It was now reduced and confined to the original purpose of its institution.
It is for the most worthless of all purposes, too, that they are taxed in this manner.
Such companies, therefore, seem extremely well fitted for this trade.
The two banks of Edinburgh are joint-stock companies, without any exclusive privilege.
Neither the London Assurance, nor the Royal Exchange Assurance companies have any such privilege.
In the four trades above mentioned, both those circumstances concur.
The mine-adventurers company has been long ago bankrupt.
Of the Expense of the Institution for the Education of Youth.
Great objects, however, are evidently not necessary, in order to occasion the greatest exertions.
The charitable foundations of scholarships, exhibitions, bursaries, etc.
The good effects of the riding school are not commonly so evident.
The expense of a riding school is so great, that in most places it is a public institution.
In England, the public schools are much less corrupted than the universities.
Schools have no exclusive privileges.
It was not so with that either of the Greek or of the Hebrew language.
This general division seems perfectly agreeable to the nature of things.
Something of the same kind was afterwards attempted in morals.
Different authors gave different systems, both of natural and moral philosophy.
The doctrines concerning those two subjects were considered as making two distinct sciences.
Our young people, it is said, generally return home much improved by their travels.
Such have been the effects of some of the modern institutions for education.
But among the Romans there was nothing which corresponded to the musical education of the Greeks.
It is so at this day among the negroes on the coast of Africa.
It does not appear that the state ever assumed any inspection or direction of them.
But those schools were not supported by the public.
They were, for a long time, barely tolerated by it.
In this manner lived Zeno of Elea, Protagoras, Gorgias, Hippias, and many others.
But Epicurus bequeathed his gardens to his own school.
The Romans are said to have been particularly distinguished for their superior respect to an oath.
Our prejudice is perhaps rather to overrate them.
But those privileges can be obtained only by attending the lectures of the public teachers.
It is otherwise with the common people.
They have little time to spare for education.
Their parents can scarce afford to maintain them, even in infancy.
Those masters do not appear to have had either salaries or exclusive privileges of any kind.
They were much more simple.
The influence, besides, of the ancient institutions, was much more universal.
The state, however, derives no inconsiderable advantage from their instruction.
Of the Expense of the Institutions for the Instruction of People of all Ages.
The methodists, without half the learning of the dissenters, are much more in vogue.
The mendicant orders derive their whole subsistence from such oblations.
They are obliged, therefore, to use every art which can animate the devotion of the common people.
The establishment of the two great mendicant orders of St Dominic and St.
The persons employed in the finances, fleets, and magistracy, are instances of this order of men.
No regard will be paid to truth, morals, or decency, in the doctrines inculcated.
Every tenet will be adopted that best suits the disorderly affections of the human frame.
There would, and, in this case, no doubt, have been, a great multitude of religious sects.
His authority and consideration depend very much upon the respect which this society bears to him.
In this situation, and in this situation only, he may have what is called a character to lose.
But as soon as he comes into a great city, he is sunk in obscurity and darkness.
He from that moment acquires a degree of consideration which he never had before.
The second of those remedies is the frequency and gaiety of public diversions.
But it is quite otherwise in countries where there is an established or governing religion.
The clergy of every established church constitute a great incorporation.
Should he oppose any of their pretensions or usurpations, the danger is equally great.
But the authority of religion is superior to every other authority.
The fears which it suggests conquer all other fears.
That experiment was not pursued.
All church preferments were in this manner in the disposal of the church.
By this arrangement the condition of the sovereign was still worse than it had been before.
Those arms were the most formidable that can well be imagined.
There was always much more union among the clergy than among the lay-lords.
The former were under a regular discipline and subordination to the papal authority.
Their charity became gradually less extensive, their hospitality less liberal, or less profuse.
Their retainers became consequently less numerous, and, by degrees, dwindled away altogether.
Other regulations, of a similar tendency, were established in other parts of Europe.
They were taught to do so, it may very safely be presumed, by the clergy of his own dominions.
The clergy, therefore, had both less power, and less inclination, to disturb the state.
The new doctrines were everywhere received with a high degree of popular favour.
They universally, therefore, established the reformation in their own dominions.
The tyranny of Christiern II.
And of Troll archbishop of Upsal, enabled Gustavus Vasa to expel them both from Sweden.
It was well enough inclined, too, to be complaisant to the king of England.
King of Spain and emperor of Germany.
The latter part seems never to have had any effects but what were perfectly agreeable.
Nothing but exemplary morals can give dignity to a man of small fortune.
Their kindness naturally provokes his kindness.
He becomes careful to instruct them, and attentive to assist and relieve them.
It is observed by Mr.
The famous Cassendi was, in the beginning of his life, a professor in the university of Aix.
The observation of Mr.
It tends to render their learning both as solid as possible, and as useful as possible.
This very moderate revenue affords a decent subsistence to nine hundred and forty-four ministers.
If he professes himself to be of any other, indeed, the law obliges him to leave the canton.
Of the Expense of supporting the Dignity of the Sovereign.
His dignity even seems to require that he should become so.
OF THE SOURCES OF THE GENERAL OR PUBLIC REVENUE OF THE SOCIETY.
Of the Funds, or Sources, of Revenue, which may peculiarly belong to the Sovereign or Commonwealth.
His revenue is, in the one case, profit, in the other interest.
The revenue of a Tartar or Arabian chief consists in profit.
It is much shorter, and probably not quite so exact as that of the French taxes.
The profit of a public bank has been a source of revenue to more considerable states.
It has been so, not only to Hamburgh, but to Venice and Amsterdam.
Reckoning the ordinary dividend of the bank of England at five and a-half per cent.
Government, it is pretended, could borrow this capital at three per cent.
The post-office is properly a mercantile project.
The capital to be advanced is not very considerable.
There is no mystery in the business.
The returns are not only certain but immediate.
They have scarce ever succeeded.
No two characters seem more inconsistent than those of trader and sovereign.
The other expenses of government were, the greater part of them, very moderate.
The officers of his household, accordingly, were then the great officers of state.
The lord treasurer received his rents.
The lord steward and lord chamberlain looked after the expense of his family.
The care of his stables was committed to the lord constable and the lord marshal.
The keepers of those houses or castles might be considered as a sort of military governors.
But the land tax, at four shillings in the pound, falls short of two millions a-year.
If the crown lands were more extensive, it is probable, they would be still worse managed.
The crown might immediately enjoy the revenue which this great price would redeem from mortgage.
In the course of a few years, it would probably enjoy another revenue.
Lands, for the purposes of pleasure and magnificence, parks, gardens, public walks, etc.
The tax which each individual is bound to pay, ought to be certain and not arbitrary.
He pays them by little and little, as he has occasion to buy the goods.
An injudicious tax offers a great temptation to smuggling.
But the penalties of smuggling must arise in proportion to the temptation.
Taxes upon Rent--Taxes upon the Rent of Land.
This tax, therefore, so far offends against the first of the four maxims above mentioned.
It is perfectly agreeable to the other three.
It is perfectly certain.
As the tax is made payable in money, so the valuation of the land is expressed in money.
In the course of ages, such circumstances, however, must at some time or other happen.
Of the supposed rent.
A land-tax of this kind is certainly more equal than the land-tax of England.
It might, too, be a good deal more expensive in the levying.
All the conditions of the lease might be sufficiently known from such a record.
Some landlords, instead of raising the rent, take a fine for the renewal of the lease.
Such rents are always more hurtful to the tenant than beneficial to the landlord.
It is of importance that the landlord should be encouraged to cultivate a part of his own land.
The landlord can afford to try experiments, and is generally disposed to do so.
His unsuccessful experiments occasion only a moderate loss to himself.
His successful ones contribute to the improvement and better cultivation of the whole country.
It had better, however, be somewhat too long, than in any respect too short.
Doomsday-book seems to have been the result of a very accurate survey of this kind.
The other revenues of the ecclesiastics of both religions at fifty per cent.
The commanderies of the Teutonic order, and of that of Malta, at forty per cent.
Lands held by a noble tenure, at thirty-eight and one-third per cent.
Lands held by a base tenure, at thirty-five and one-third per cent.
The survey and valuation of Bohemia is said to have been the work of more than a hundred years.
The survey of Savoy and Piedmont was executed under the orders of the late king of Sardinia.
The revenue of the church is, the greater part of it, a burden upon the rent of land.
In some countries, the lands of the church are exempted from all taxes.
In others, they are taxed more lightly than other lands.
In Silesia, lands held by a noble tenure are taxed three per cent.
Higher than those held by a base tenure.
In other countries, the system of taxation, instead of alleviating, aggravates this inequality.
Those held by a noble one are exempted.
Both these districts are, by the additional tax, rated at eleven hundred livres each.
Taxes which are proportioned, not in the Rent, but to the Produce of Land.
The land tax of ancient Egypt is said likewise to have amounted to a fifth part.
When destined for the maintenance of the church, they are attended with nothing but inconveniency.
Some part of the public revenue of China, however, is said to be paid in this manner.
The produce of the latter may, at different times, bear very different proportions to that value.
It neither rises nor falls with the rent of the land.
It neither encourages nor discourages improvement.
Taxes upon the Rent of Houses.
The building-rent is the interest or profit of the capital expended in building the house.
Where the market rate of interest is four per cent.
Upon the whole expense of building, may, perhaps, afford a sufficient profit to the builder.
Where the market rate of interest is five per cent.
It may perhaps require seven or seven and a half per cent.
The necessaries of life occasion the great expense of the poor.
The rent of land is paid for the use of a productive subject.
The land which pays it produces it.
The rent of houses is paid for the use of an unproductive subject.
Neither the house, nor the ground which it stands upon, produce anything.
Houses not inhabited ought to pay no tax.
The ground-rents of uninhabited houses ought to pay no tax.
A very heavy tax might discourage, too much, this attention and good management.
It was originally extremely unequal, and it still continues to be so.
Improvements of rent, by new buildings, repairs, etc.
In Holland, where the market rate of interest does not exceed three per cent.
Two and a-half per cent.
This odious visit rendered the tax odious.
Soon after the Revolution, therefore, it was abolished as a badge of slavery.
The next tax of this kind was a tax of two shillings upon every dwelling-house inhabited.
A house with ten windows to pay four shillings more.
A house with twenty windows and upwards to pay eight shillings.
The visit of the tax-gatherer, therefore, was less offensive in this tax than in the hearth-money.
Such taxes are, therefore, directly contrary to the first of the four maxims above mentioned.
They do not seem to offend much against any of the other three.
The natural tendency of the window tax, and of all other taxes upon houses, is to lower rents.
The more a man pays for the tax, the less, it is evident, he can afford to pay for the rent.
Had it not been for the tax, rents would probably have risen still higher.
Taxes upon Profit, or upon the Revenue arising from Stock.
This latter part of profit is evidently a subject not taxable directly.
It is liable, besides, to almost continual variations.
The proprietor of land is necessarily a citizen of the particular country in which his estate lies.
When the present annual land tax was first imposed, the legal rate of interest was six per cent.
Since the legal rate of interest has been reduced to five per cent.
Every hundred pounds stock is supposed to be taxed at twenty shillings only.
It is otherwise in London.
This tax is generally supposed to be paid with great fidelity.
It is not peculiar to the people of Hamburg.
They have no suspicion, it is said, that any of their fellow citizens will deceive them.
At Basil, the principal revenue of the state arises from a small custom upon goods exported.
All the citizens make oath, that they will pay every three months all the taxes imposed by law.
It is not suspected that the revenue suffers by this confidence.
At Hamburg it would be reckoned the greatest.
Or the fiftieth penny, as it was called, was imposed upon the whole substance of every citizen.
The tax was to be paid but once, in order to relieve the state in a particular exigency.
It was, indeed, too heavy to be permanent.
In a country where the market rate of interest seldom exceeds three per cent.
A tax of two per cent.
It is a tax which very few people could pay, without encroaching more or less upon their capitals.
That of Holland was meant to be a tax upon the capital.
Taxes upon the Profit of particular Employments.
During the late war, another tax of the same kind was proposed upon shops.
It neither favours the great, nor oppresses the smaller dealer.
The former must find it more easy to get back the tax in the price of their goods than the latter.
The tax upon shops, it was intended, should be the same upon all shops.
It could not well have been otherwise.
The occupiers of land all over Europe were, the greater part of them, originally bond-men.
Through the greater part of Europe, they were gradually emancipated.
Ignorance and misinformation must always, more or less, mislead the most upright council.
He cannot even be certain after he is assessed.
The parish is afterwards reimposed, in order to reimburse those five or six.
The price of the goods rises, and the final payment of the tax falls upon the consumer.
Each farmer occupies a certain quantity of land, for which he pays rent.
The more he is obliged to pay in the way of tax, the less he can afford to pay in the way of rent.
Upon the renewal of the lease, it must always fall upon the landlord.
The public, the farmer, the landlord, all suffer more or less by this degraded cultivation.
There subsists at present a tax of this kind in the empire of Russia.
Every tax, however, is, to the person who pays it, a badge, not of slavery, but of liberty.
A poll tax upon slaves is altogether different from a poll-tax upon freemen.
Every master, who knows the number of his own slaves, knows exactly what he has to pay.
It falls heaviest upon the middling rank.
A man of two hundred a-year may keep a single man-servant.
A man of ten thousand a-year will not keep fifty.
It does not affect the poor.
Taxes upon the profits of stock, in particular employments, can never affect the interest of money.
It, in many cases, falls altogether upon the interest of money.
APPENDIX TO ARTICLES I.
Taxes upon the Capital Value of Lands, Houses, and Stock.
Such transactions, therefore, may be taxed directly.
It cannot easily, therefore, be taxed directly.
See also Burman.
De Vectigalibus Pop.
And Bouchaud de l'impot du vingtieme sur les successions.
Of the same kind is the Dutch tax upon successions.
Upon the whole value of the succession.
Testamentary donations, or legacies to collaterals, are subject to the like duties.
Those from husband to wife, or from wife to husband, to the fiftieth penny.
Direct successions, or those of descendants to ascendants, pay no tax.
The waste, and not the disincumbrance of the estate, was the common effect of a long minority.
But if any person sells his land in order to remove out of the territory, he pays ten per cent.
Upon the whole price of the sale.
The crown derives no revenue from them.
This is over and above all their other taxes on succession.
This duty, however, does not rise in proportion to the value of the subject.
Upon the amount of the price or of the mortgage.
These, it seems, are considered as a sort of houses upon the water.
In France, there are both stamp duties and duties upon registration.
Taxes upon the sale of land fall altogether upon the seller.
He considers what the land will cost him, in tax and price together.
If he advances the tax, therefore, the buyer must generally repay it to him.
Duties of the same kind upon law proceedings fall upon the suitors.
They reduce to both the capital value of the subject in dispute.
The more it costs to acquire any property, the less must be the neat value of it when acquired.
They are in no respect arbitrary, but are, or may be, in all cases, perfectly clear and certain.
When the payment becomes due, he must, in most cases, have the more to pay.
In France, the stamp duties are not much complained of.
Those of registration, which they call the Controle, are.
Uncertainty, however, does not seem to be necessarily inherent in the nature of such taxes.
All registers which, it is acknowledged, ought to be kept secret, ought certainly never to exist.
In France there are several different sorts of secret registers.
Taxes upon the Wages of Labour.
The final payment would, in different cases, fall upon different persons.
Absurd and destructive as such taxes are, however, they take place in many countries.
They are divided into four classes.
The emoluments of offices, therefore, can, in most cases, very well bear to be taxed.
There are in England no other direct taxes upon the wages of labour.
Taxes which it is intended should fall indifferently upon every different Species of Revenue.
Capitation Taxes.
Let the tax be light or heavy, uncertainty is always a great grievance.
Their rank was more considered than their fortune.
The inferior ranks of people in the provinces are assessed in the second.
In France, the capitation always produces the sum expected from it.
In that year, indeed, the council assumed this power to itself.
Taxes upon Consumable Commodities.
Their expense is taxed, by taxing the consumable commodities upon which it is laid out.
Consumable commodities are either necessaries or luxuries.
A linen shirt, for example, is, strictly speaking, not a necessary of life.
The Greeks and Romans lived, I suppose, very comfortably, though they had no linen.
Custom, in the same manner, has rendered leather shoes a necessary of life in England.
The poorest creditable person, of either sex, would be ashamed to appear in public without them.
Beer and ale, for example, in Great Britain, and wine, even in the wine countries, I call luxuries.
A man of any rank may, without any reproach, abstain totally from tasting such liquors.
It is otherwise with taxes upon what I call luxuries, even upon those of the poor.
These were about eighteen pence or twenty pence a-day before the tax, and they are not more now.
Salt is a very ancient and a very universal subject of taxation.
It was taxed among the Romans, and it is so at present in, I believe, every part of Europe.
In some other countries, the tax is still higher.
Leather is a real necessary of life.
The use of linen renders soap such.
In countries where the winter nights are long, candles are a necessary instrument of trade.
Of the original price at the coal pit.
Coals carried, either by land or by inland navigation, pay no duty.
There may, therefore, be good reasons for continuing them.
Taxes upon the necessaries of life are much higher in many other countries than in Great Britain.
Taxes upon butcher's meat are still more common than those upon bread.
It may indeed be doubted, whether butcher's meat is any where a necessary of life.
Consumable commodities, whether necessaries or luxuries, may be taxed in two different ways.
A coach may, with good management, last ten or twelve years.
It might be taxed, once for all, before it comes out of the hands of the coach-maker.
A service of plate in the same manner, may last more than a century.
If a workman can conveniently spare those three halfpence, he buys a pot of porter.
Thirdly, such taxes would operate less as sumptuary laws.
In Holland, people pay so much a-head for a licence to drink tea.
The duties of excise are imposed chiefly upon goods of home produce, destined for home consumption.
They are imposed only upon a few sorts of goods of the most general use.
The duties of customs are much more ancient than those of excise.
They appear to have been originally considered as taxes upon the profits of merchants.
The gains of alien merchants were looked upon more unfavourably than those of English merchants.
The first, and, perhaps, the most ancient of all those duties, was that upon wool and leather.
It seems to have been chiefly or altogether an exportation duty.
In the fourteenth of Richard II.
This duty continued at one shilling in the pound.
Was an additional five per cent.
Upon the greater part of goods.
The one-third and the two-third subsidy made up between them another five per cent.
Of which they were proportionable parts.
That system has come gradually more and more into fashion.
The old subsidy was imposed indifferently upon exportation, as well as importation.
In most cases, they have been taken away.
Bounties have even been given upon the exportation of some of them.
The exportation of English wool has been prohibited.
The saying of Dr.
The expense of management, amounts, in this manner, to between five and six per cent.
Upon what remains of that revenue, after deducting what is paid away in bounties and drawbacks.
This alteration, it has been supposed by many people, might very easily be brought about.
There would be no occasion to prohibit the importation of foreign silks and velvets.
Such are, for example, the duties upon foreign wines, upon coffee, chocolate, tea, sugar, etc.
The whole expense of the inferior is much greater titan that of the superior ranks.
Such a tax must, in all cases, either raise the wages of labour, or lessen the demand for it.
It is not, indeed, very common to distil for private use, though it is done sometimes.
But in the country, many middling and almost all rich and great families, brew their own beer.
The different taxes upon small beer amount to one shilling and fourpence a-barrel.
Upon the gallon of spirits.
The objections of Dr.
Davenant to this alteration in the present system of excise duties, seem to be without foundation.
The former, therefore, may frequently get the returns of his money as soon as the latter.
These are in some countries called transit-duties.
In the time and mode of payment, they are, or may be, of all taxes the most convenient.
They offend in every respect against the fourth.
They seem to do this in all the four different ways in which it is possible to do it.
In the salaries of officers and other incidents.
If the salaries of officers, and other incidents, therefore, amount to more than ten per cent.
It is otherwise with goods subject to duties of excise.
The dealers have no respite from the continual visits and examination of the excise officers.
The famous alcavala of Spain seems to have been established upon this principle.
It was at first a tax of ten per cent.
Afterwards of fourteen per cent.
And it is at present only six per cent.
It is to the alcavala, accordingly, that Ustaritz imputes the ruin of the manufactures of Spain.
In the kingdom of Naples, there is a similar tax of three per cent.
Upon the value of all contracts, and consequently upon that of all contracts of sale.
The Neapolitan tax, therefore, is not near so ruinous as the Spanish one.
Goods carried coastwise, indeed, require certificates or coast-cockets.
If you except coals, however, the rest are almost all duty-free.
The aides, which correspond to the excise in England, are very different in different provinces.
Some provinces are exempted from them, and pay a composition or equivalent.
Such various and complicated revenue laws are not peculiar to France.
The best and most frugal way of levying a tax can never be by farm.
In those moments of public distress, their commands cannot be disputed.
The revenue laws, therefore, become gradually more and more severe.
In France, the duties upon tobacco and salt are levied in this manner.
The taxes upon both commodities are exorbitant.
Those taxes, levied in this manner, yield a very considerable revenue to government.
The live last are, in the greater part of the provinces, under farm.
The finances of France seem, in their present state, to admit of three very obvious reformations.
The French system of taxation seems, in every respect, inferior to the British.
The soil and climate of France are better than those of Great Britain.
OF PUBLIC DEBTS.
A passion for cock-fighting has ruined many.
A part of their wool and raw hides, they had generally an opportunity of selling for money.
They could not well, indeed, do any thing else but hoard whatever money they saved.
Treasure-trove was then considered as an important branch of the revenue of the sovereign.
The same disposition, to save and to hoard, prevailed in the sovereign, as well as in the subjects.
The ignorance of the times affords but few of the trinkets in which that finery consists.
All the ancient sovereigns of Europe, accordingly, it has already been observed, had treasures.
Every Tartar chief, in the present times, is said to have one.
The same frivolous passions, which influence their conduct, influence his.
The Italian republics, the United Provinces of the Netherlands, are all in debt.
The canton of Berne is the single republic in Europe which has amassed any considerable treasure.
The other Swiss republics have not.
The want of parsimony, in time of peace, imposes the necessity of contracting debt in time of war.
In this exigency, government can have no other resource but in borrowing.
The revenue of such a man can regularly pass through his hands only once in a year.
Hence the ability in the subjects of a commercial state to lend.
Hence the inclination or willingness in the subjects of a commercial state to lend.
It foresees the facility of borrowing, and therefore dispenses itself from the duty of saving.
In a rude state of society, there are no great mercantile or manufacturing capitals.
This foresight increases still further his natural disposition to save.
What is called the unfunded debt of Great Britain, is contracted in the former of those two ways.
Usually constitute a debt of the first kind.
The East-India fund at five per cent.
But the greater part of European governments have been incapable of those attentions.
The future liberation of the public revenue they leave to the care of posterity.
For the interest of their money, which occasioned a saving of one per cent.
Which reductions still further augmented the sinking fund.
Or a little more than seven years purchase.
For life, and fourteen per cent.
For ninety-six years, was sold for sixty-three pounds, or for four and a-half years purchase.
Such was the supposed instability of government, that even these terms procured few purchasers.
Make the greater part of those who advance their money in all public exigencies.
Such people are commonly men of mean birth, but of great wealth, and frequently of great pride.
They are too proud to marry their equals, and women of quality disdain to marry them.
These are mortgaged for the interest of the debt contracted, in order to carry it on.
Hence the usual insufficiency of such funds.
Every new tax is immediately felt more or less by the people.
It occasions always some murmur, and meets with some opposition.
Hence the usual misapplication of the sinking fund.
Pelham was not able to pay off an old debt of six millions.
The principal are,  The produce of French prizes.
Wars would, in general, be more speedily concluded, and less wantonly undertaken.
The peace revenue of Great Britain amounts at present to more than ten millions a-year.
The money does not go out of the country.
Land and capital stock are the two original sources of all revenue, both private and public.
As the distress of the landlord increases, the agriculture of the country must necessarily decline.
As a creditor of the public, he has no knowledge of any such particular portion.
He has no inspection of it.
He can have no care about it.
Its ruin may in some cases be unknown to him, and cannot directly affect him.
The practice of funding has gradually enfeebled every state which has adopted it.
The Italian republics seem to have begun it.
The debts of Spain are of very old standing.
The republic of the United Provinces is as much enfeebled by its debts as either Genoa or Venice.
I believe it is so.
It does not appear to have occasioned any.
Even the enormous debt of Great Britain might in this manner soon be paid.
The adulteration of the standard, on the contrary, has generally been a concealed operation.
Both operations are unjust.
The English coin was not only raised in its denomination, but adulterated in its standard.
The like frauds were practised in Scotland during the minority of James VI.
They have occasionally been practised in most other countries.
America pays no tythe, and could, therefore, very well afford to pay a land tax.
They could not, therefore, be assessed according to any rent roll.
It might be adopted, however, in cases where no better could be done.
But without gold and silver, it is added, there is no possibility of paying taxes.
We already get all the gold and silver which they have.
The scarcity of those metals, therefore, must be the effect of choice, and not of necessity.
Where those metals are not necessary, they seldom appear.
Where they are necessary, they are generally found.
It is more convenient for the colonists to pay in tobacco than in gold and silver.
They are said, accordingly, to have less gold and silver money than any other colonies in America.
They are reckoned, however, as thriving, and consequently as rich, as any of their neighbours.
Their rents are remitted to them in sugar and rum, the produce of their estates.
The new acquisitions of Grenada, Tobago, St.
It might not, however, be necessary to remit any part of the American revenue in gold and silver.
No oppressive aristocracy has ever prevailed in the colonies.
The spirit of party prevails less in Scotland than in England.
None of these articles, therefore, seem to admit of any considerable reduction of expense.
This empire, however, has hitherto existed in imagination only.
If the project cannot be completed, it ought to be given up.
